
In all schools pupils are expected to write “essays” but, curiously
enough, essay-reading and essay-writing are taught but little. In spite
of that neglect, the essay is so altogether natural and spontaneous
in spirit, so intensely personal in expression, and so demanding of
excellence of prose style, that it is _the_ form, _par excellence_, for
consideration in school if teachers are to show pupils much concerning
the art of writing well. The essay is to prose what the lyric is to
poetry--complete, genuine and beautiful self-expression, or better
still, self-revelation.

Most of the writing done in schools is straightforward narration of
events, without much, if any, attempt to show personal reactions
on those events--mere diary-like accounts, at best; mechanical
descriptions that aim to present exterior appearance without attempting
to reveal inner meanings or to show awakened emotions; and stereotyped
explanations and arguments drawn, for the most part, from books of
reference or from slight observation.

Beyond all this mechanical work lies a field of throbbing personal
life, of joyous reactions on all the myriads of interests that lie
close at hand, of meditations on the wonders of plant and animal life,
of humorous or philosophic comments on human nature, and of all manner
of vague dreams and aspirations aroused by

        “Such sights as youthful poets dream
        On summer eves by haunted stream.”

Without the slightest question, it is the duty of the school, and of
the teacher in particular, to lead pupils to appreciate honesty and
originality in unapplied, unpragmatic self-expression, and to show
pupils how they themselves may gain the very real pleasure of putting
down on paper permanent records of their own intimate thinking.

Joseph Addison's _The Sir Roger de Coverley Papers_ and Washington
Irving's _Sketch Book_ have for many years made valiant but
unsuccessful efforts to fill the places that should be filled by more
modern representatives of the essay. Macaulay's _Essay on Johnson_ is
a biographical article for an encyclopedia; his essays on Clive and on
Hastings are polemics; and Carlyle's _Essay on Burns_ is a critical
disquisition. With the exception of _The Sir Roger de Coverley Papers_,
all these so-called essays are of considerable length and are unfitted
to serve as the best examples of the essay form;--for the essay, like
the lyric, demands brevity: it is, after all, only a quick flash of
self-revelation,--not a sustained effort.

Then again, who would wish to learn to write like Addison, like
Washington Irving, like Macaulay, or like Carlyle! Those great writers
couched their thoughts in the language-fashions of their days, just as
they clothed their bodies in the garments of their times. To imitate
either their style of expression or their costumes would be to make
one's self ridiculous, or to take part in a species of masquerade.

The extremely Latinized vocabulary of 1711, or the resonant periods and
marked antitheses of 1850, are as old-fashioned to-day as are the once
highly respected periwigs, great-coats and silver shoe buckles of the
past.

The thoughts of yesterday are not the thoughts of to-day. There is,
in serious reality, such a thing as “an old-fashioned point of view.”
With all due reverence for the past, the best teachers of to-day
believe that it is just as necessary for students to use present-day
methods of expression and to cultivate present-day interests as it is
to take advantage of the railroad, the telegraph, the telephone, the
automobile, and the thousand other mechanical contrivances that aid
life to-day, but which were unknown in 1711 or in 1850.

The type of essay that should be studied in school should concern
modern interests; represent the modern point of view; discuss subjects
in which young students are interested; be expressed in present-day
language and, in general, should set forward an example that pupils
may directly and successfully imitate.

In order to do all this to the best advantage the essays chosen for
study should be exceedingly short. To a young student essays of
any considerable length, unless the subject matter is of unusually
intensive interest, present insuperable difficulties. Short essays,
on the other hand, appear to him exactly what they are,--charmingly
delightful expressions of personal opinion.

The essays in this book, instead of telling about coffee houses or
stage coaches, Scotch peasants or literary circles in London or
Edinburgh, tell about such subjects as Christmas crowds, church bells,
walking, dogs, the wind, children, the streets of New York, school
experiences, and various modern ideals in work, in literature, and in
life. Most of the essays are exceedingly short, only one or two being
more than a few pages in length.

The essays here given represent various types, including not only the
chatty, familiar essay but also informational essays, critical essays,
biographical essays, story essays, and one or two examples of highly
poetic prose.

An informal introduction, paving the way to a sympathetic
understanding, precedes every essay. Notes below the pages of text
explain immediately all the literary or historical allusions with which
a young reader might not be familiar, their close position to the text
making it unnecessary for a student to hunt for an explanation.

Suggestive questions given immediately after every essay make it
possible for the teacher to assign lessons quickly; they also enable
the student to study by himself and to feel assured that he will not
miss any important point.

Twenty subjects, suitable as subjects for essays to be written by the
student in direct imitation of the essay that immediately precedes
them, follow every selection. In addition to this great number of
appropriate modern subjects, more than 500 in number, on which young
students can express their real selves, there are given, in connection
with every list of subjects, directions for writing,--such as a
teacher might give a class when assigning written work.

The subject-lists and the directions for writing give the teacher a
remarkable opportunity to stimulate a class as never before; to awaken
a spirit of genuine self-expression; and to teach English composition
in a way that he can not possibly do through the medium of any of our
present-day rhetorics.


For the advantage of those teachers who wish to combine the teaching
of the essay and of the short story, and who may not have at hand
any suitable collection of short stories, the book includes not only
introductory material concerning the nature of the short story and
the development of the short story form, but also a series of stories
of unusual interest for young readers, so chosen and so arranged that
they represent the development of the short story through the legendary
tale, the historical story, and the romantic story of adventure, to
the story of realism and of character. In every case the story chosen
is one that any student will enjoy and will understand immediately, as
well as one that he can imitate both with pleasure and with success.

Introductions, foot notes, suggestive questions, subjects for written
imitation, and directions for writing, follow every story.

If the book is used both as a means of awakening literary
appreciation and developing honesty, originality, and power in written
self-expression it will give pleasure to teachers and students alike.



Why? Simply because they are happy; because they are healthy and
vigorous, and at work; because they are doing something that interests
them; because their hearty enjoyment in life must express itself in
some other way than in work alone: in fact, they whistle and sing just
for the doing of it,--not that they wish any other person to hear them,
and not that they wish to teach anything to anyone. Their whistling and
singing are spontaneous, and for the sake of expression alone.

Many of the best English essays were written just for the joy of
self-expression. Serious workers in life, in their leisure moments,
have let their pens move, as it were, automatically, in a sort of frank
and full expression somewhat akin to the plowman's whistling and the
milkmaid's singing.

Certainly in that joyous spirit Michel de Montaigne, in the sixteenth
century, wrote the delightfully familiar essays that have charmed
readers for over three hundred years, and that established the essay as
a literary type. In a like vein, frankly and personally, Charles Lamb,
who died in the first half of the nineteenth century, wrote intimate
confessions of his thoughts,--his memories of schooldays and of early
companionships and familiar places,--writing with all the warmth and
color of affectionate regard. Happily, and because he was glad to be
alive, Robert Louis Stevenson, almost in our own days, wrote of his
love of the good outdoor world with its brooks and trees and stars,
of his love of books and high thought, and his admiration of a manly
attitude toward life.

For such people writing for the sake of expression was just as pure joy
as the plowman's whistling and the milkmaid's singing.

Ordinary people write at least the beginnings of essays when they write
letters,--not business letters in which they order yards of cloth, or
complain that goods have not been delivered,--not letters that convey
any of the business of life,--but rambling, gossipy, self-revealing
letters, so illuminated with personality that they carry the very
spirit of the writers.

Everyone, at times, talks or writes in a gossipy way of the things that
interest him. He likes to escape from the world of daily tasks, of
orders, directions, explanations and arguments, and to talk or write
almost without purpose and just for the sake of saying something. In
that sense everyone is a natural essayist.

The true essayist, like the pleasant conversationalist, expresses
himself because it gives him pleasure. Out of his rich experience and
wide observation he speaks wisely and kindly. He has no one story to
tell and no one picture to present. He follows no rules and he aims
at no very serious purpose. He does not desire to instruct nor to
convince. Like the conversationalist, he is ready to leave some things
half-said and to emphasize some subjects, not because it is logical to
do so but because he happens to like them. He is ready at any moment to
tell an anecdote, to introduce humor or pathos, or to describe a scene
or a person--if so doing fits his mood. In general, the true essayist
is like the musician who improvises: he

        “Lets his fingers wander as they list,
        And builds a bridge from dreamland.”

Of all possible kinds of prose writing, the essay, therefore, gives the
greatest freedom. The essayist may reveal himself completely and in
any manner that he pleases. He may tell of his delight in wandering by
mountain streams, or in mingling with the crowds in city streets; he
may tell of his thoughts as he meditated by ancient buildings or in the
solemn half-darkness of age-old churches; he may dream of a long-gone
childhood or look ahead into a roseate future; he may talk of people
whom he has known, of books that he has read, or of the ideals of life.
Any subject is his, and any method of treatment is his,--just so long
as his first thought is the frank and full expression of himself.

To write an essay,--even though it be only a paragraph,--is to gain
the pleasure of putting at least a little of one's real self down on
paper--just because to do so is pleasure.


                                  II
                        THE NATURE OF THE ESSAY

The essay, then, instead of being a formal composition, is
characterized by a lack of formality. It is a species of very
friendly and familiar writing. Like good conversation, it turns in
any direction, and drops now and then into interesting anecdotes
or pleasant descriptions, but never makes any attempt to go to the
heart of a subject. However serious an essay may be it never becomes
extremely formal or all-inclusive.

A chapter in a textbook includes all that the subject demands and
all that the scope of treatment permits. It presents well-organized
information in clear, logical form. It aims definitely to explain or
to instruct. It may reveal nothing whatever concerning its writer. An
essay, on the other hand, includes only those parts of the subject that
interest the writer; it avoids logical form, and is just as chatty,
wandering, anecdotal and aimless as is familiar talk. It focuses
attention, not on subject-matter but on the personality of the writer.

The essay does not reveal a subject: it reveals personal interests in
a subject. It touches instead of analyzing. It comments instead of
classifying.

Truth may sparkle in an essay as gold sparkles in the sand of an
Alaskan river, but the presentation of the truth in a scientific
sense is no more the purpose of the essay than is the presentation
of the gold the purpose of the river. In the eighteenth century,
essayists like Joseph Addison, Richard Steele, Oliver Goldsmith and
Samuel Johnson, commented freely upon eighteenth century manners and
customs, but they made no attempt to present a careful survey of the
subject. Every writer wrote of what happened to interest him. To-day it
is possible to draw from the great body of eighteenth century essays
material for an almost complete survey of manners and customs in that
period--but that result is only an accident. The writers did not intend
it.

The essayist is not concerned with giving accurate and
logically-arranged information. He thinks only of telling how his
subject appeals to him, of telling whether or not he likes it, and
why. The more personally he writes, the better we like his work. In
his revelation of himself we find a sort of revelation of ourselves as
well,--and we like his work in proportion to that revelation.

Naturally, a good essay is short; for self-revelation is given in
flashes, as it were,--in sparkles of thought that gleam only for a
moment. Many so-called essays of great length are either only partly
essays, or else are made up of a number of essays put together.
Stevenson's _An Inland Voyage_ is partly a straightforward story of a
canoe trip, and partly a series of essays on subjects suggested by the
trip. It is possible to draw from a self-revealing book of considerable
length a great number of essays on a wide variety of subjects. The
essays gleam in the pages of ordinary material as diamonds gleam in
their settings of gold.

The essay, as a literary type, is written comment upon any subject,
highly informal in nature, extremely personal in character, and brief
in expression. It is also usually marked by a notable beauty of style.


                                  III
                          TYPES OF THE ESSAY

Just as there are many kinds of houses and many kinds of boats so
there are many kinds of essays. Some essays tend to emphasize the
giving of information, lean very strongly toward formality, and place
comparatively little weight on personality,--and yet even such essays,
as compared with other and more serious writings, are discursive and
personal. They are like some people who seem to favor extreme formality
without ever quite attaining it.

Other essays are critical. They point out the good and the bad, and
they set forward ideals that should be reached. The criticism they give
is not measured and accurate like the criticism a cabinet-maker might
make concerning the construction of a desk. It is more or less personal
and haphazard like the remarks of one who knows what he likes and what
he does not like but who does not wish to bother himself by going into
minute details.

Many essays tell stories, but never for the sake of the stories alone.
They use the stories as frameworks on which to hang thought, or as
illustrations to emphasize thought. The essays hold beyond and above
everything the personality of the one who writes.

Almost all essays are in some sense biographical, but they reveal
stories of lives, instead of telling the stories in organized form.
The little of biography that essays tell is just enough to permit the
writers to recall the memories of childhood, and the varied affections
and interests of life. For real biography one must go elsewhere than to
essays.

Some essays lift one into a fine and close communion with their
writers, and give intimate companionship with a human soul. They are
the best of all essays. Such essays are always extremely familiar, and
deeply personal, like the essays of Michel de Montaigne and Charles
Lamb. About such essays is an aroma, a fascination, a delight, that
makes them a joy forever. As one reads such essays he feels that he is
walking and talking with the writers, and that he hears them express
noble and uplifting thoughts.

The terse style of Francis Bacon; the magical phrases of Sir Thomas
Browne; the well-rounded sentences of Joseph Addison, Sir Richard
Steele and Oliver Goldsmith; the poetic prose of Thomas de Quincey; the
charm of the pages of Charles Lamb and Robert Louis Stevenson,--all
this is in no sense accidental. The intimate revelation of self, such
as is always made by the best essayists, creates the most pleasing
style. Genuine self-expression, whether it be the fervor of an
impassioned orator, the ardor of a lyric poet, or the meditative mood
of the essayist, always tends to embody itself in an appropriate style.
For that reason much of the best prose of the language is to be found
in the works of the great essayists.

Some writers, like Thomas de Quincey, have so felt the significance
of beauty of style, and have so appreciated its relationship to the
revelation of mood and personality, that they seem, in some cases, to
have written for style alone. Their essays are unsurpassed tissues of
prose and poetry.



Through the medium of spoken or written meditations men have always
expressed their personalities, and thereby have approached the
writing of essays. Many sections of the Bible are practically essays,
especially those passages in Ecclesiastes that speak concerning
friendship, wisdom, pride, gossip, vengeance, punishment and topics of
similar type. In the ancient Greek and Roman orations are essay-like
sections in which the speakers paused for a moment to express their
innermost thoughts about life, patriotism, duty, or the great fact of
death. Cicero, one of the most remarkable Romans, wrote admirably and
with a spirit of familiarity and frankness, on friendship, old age, and
immortality. In all ages, in speeches, in letters, and in longer works,
essay-like productions appeared.

The invention of the modern essay,--that is, of the extremely informal,
intimate and personal meditation,--came in 1571, in France. The
inventor of the new type of literature was Michel de Montaigne, a
retired scholar, counsellor and courtier, who found a studious refuge
in the old tower of Montaigne, where he meditated and wrote for
nine years. His essays, which were first published in 1580, are so
delightfully informal, so frankly personal, so clever and well-aimed in
humor, and so wise, that they are almost without parallel. In 1601 an
Italian, Giovanni Florio, translated Montaigne's essays into English.
Immediately the essays became popular and they have deeply influenced
the writing of essays in English. In 1597 Francis Bacon published the
first of his essays, but he did not write with the familiarity that
characterized Montaigne. Nevertheless, his work, together with that
of Montaigne, is to be regarded as representing the beginning of the
modern essay.

It was not until the development of the newspaper in the eighteenth
century that the essay found its real period of growth as a literary
type. In the first half of the eighteenth century _The Tatler_ and
_The Spectator_, and similar periodicals, gave an opportunity for the
publication of short prose compositions of a popular nature. Joseph
Addison and Richard Steele, writing with kindly humor on the foibles
of the day, did much to establish the popularity of the essay. Samuel
Johnson, Oliver Goldsmith and other writers, in other periodicals,
continued the writing of essays, and made the power of the essay known.

Until the time of Charles Lamb, in the first half of the nineteenth
century, no English writer had even approached the familiar charm
of Montaigne. Bacon had written in a formal manner; his followers
had held before them the thought of teaching rather than the thought
of self-revelation; the eighteenth century writers had delighted in
character studies and in observations on social life and customs. Lamb,
on the other hand, wrote not to instruct but to communicate; not about
the world but about himself. He restored the essay to its position as a
means of self-revelation. The most notable fact about Lamb's essays is
that they reveal him to us as one of the persons whom we know best. At
the same time humor, pathos and beauty of expression are so remarkable
in Lamb's essays that they alone give them permanent value.

Other writers of the essay, like Leigh Hunt, Sydney Smith, William
Hazlitt, and Francis Jeffrey, wrote powerfully but none of them with
a charm equal to that of Lamb. Thomas de Quincey, writing in a highly
poetic style, did much to stimulate poetic prose. Lord Macaulay,
in a number of critical and biographical essays, wrote forcefully,
logically, and with a high degree of mastery of style but he paid
slight attention to self-revelation.

It is evident, then, that there are two marked types of the
essay,--one, the formal, purposive composition; and the other informal
and intensely personal in nature. Ralph Waldo Emerson, Matthew Arnold,
John Ruskin, and James Russell Lowell represent the first type. Many
excellent articles in periodicals, and many of the best of editorial
articles in newspapers are in reality essays of the formal kind.
Washington Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Henry D. Thoreau, George
William Curtis and many others represent the second type.

In modern times the world has been blessed by the writing of a number
of essays of the charming, familiar type. John Burroughs has revealed
his love for the world of nature; Henry Van Dyke has taken us among
the mountains and along the rivers; and Gilbert K. Chesterton, Arnold
Bennett, Samuel M. Crothers, Charles Dudley Warner, Hamilton Wright
Mabie, Brander Matthews, Agnes Repplier and a host of others have
written on many and varied subjects.

Great essayists, like great novelists or great poets or great
dramatists, are rare. It is only now and then that a Montaigne, a
Charles Lamb, or a Robert Louis Stevenson appears. It is to the glory
of literature, however, that there are so many who write in the field
of the essay, and who approach true greatness, even if they do not
attain it.



You cross a street and narrowly escape being run over by an
automobile; or you go on a picnic and have delightful experiences;
or you return from travel, with the memory of happy adventures--at
once an uncontrollable impulse besets you to tell some one what you
experienced. That desire to interest some one else in the series of
actions that interested you, is the basis of all story-telling.

In one of its simplest forms story-telling is personal and concerns
events that actually occurred to the story-teller. Such narration
uses the words “I,” “me” and “mine,” seeks no development, aims at no
climax, and strikes at interest only through telling of the unusual.

When you stand before an abandoned farm-house and see its half-fallen
chimney, its decayed boards, its gaping windows, and the wild vines
that clamber into what was once a home your imagination takes fire,
and you think of happier days that the house has seen. You imagine the
man and woman who built it; the children who played in its doorways;
and the happy gatherings or sad scenes that marked its story. That
quick imagination of the _might-be_ and the _might-have-been_ is the
beginning both of realism and of romance. The story you would tell
would use the third person, in all probability; would seek an orderly
development, and would aim at climax.

When you stand in your window on a winter day and watch thousands of
snow-flakes float down from the sky, circling in fantastic whirls,
you see them as so many white fairies led by a master spirit in revel
and dance. You are ready to tell, with whatever degree of fancy
and skill you can command, the story of the-world-as-it-is-not and
as-it-never-will-be. A story of that kind is pure romance.

Whenever you tell what happened to you or to some one else; or what
might have been or might be; or of what could not possibly be, your
object is to interest some one else in what interests you. You use many
expedients to capture and to hold interest: you make a quick beginning,
or careful preparation for the climax; you make your story as real or
as striking as you can make it; you cut it short or you tell it at
length; or you hold the reader's attention on some point of interest
that you do not reveal in full until the last. Whatever you do to
capture and to hold interest makes for art in story-telling.

When an airplane descends unexpectedly in a country town every one in
the place wishes, as soon as possible, to learn whence the aviator came
and what experiences he had. Human curiosity is insatiable, and for
that reason people love to hear stories as well as to tell them.

In fact, people gain distinct advantages by reading stories. They
become acquainted with many types of character; they see all sorts of
interesting events that they could never see in reality; they see what
happens under certain circumstances, and thereby they gain practical
lessons. Through their reading they gain such vivid experiences that
they are likely to have a larger outlook upon life.


                                  VII
                       NATURE OF THE SHORT STORY

Brevity is the first essential of a short story, and yet under the
term, “brief,” may be included a story that is told in one or two
paragraphs, and a story that is told in many pages. A story that is so
long that it cannot be read easily at a single sitting is not a short
story.

To make one strong impression on the mind of the reader, and to make
that impression so powerfully that it will leave the reader pleased,
convinced and emotionally moved is the principal aim of a good
short story. To the production of that one effect everything in the
story,--characters, action, description, and exposition,--points with
the definiteness of an established purpose. All else is omitted, and
thus all the parts of the story are both necessary and harmonious.

Centralizing everything on the production of one effect makes every
short story complete in itself. The purpose having been accomplished
there is nothing more to be said. The end is the end.

A convincing sense of reality characterizes every excellent short
story. The author himself appears only as one who narrates truth, not
at all as one who has moved the puppets of imagination. The story
seems a transcript from real experience. The characters,--not the
author,--make the plot. Their personalities reveal themselves in
action. The entire story is founded substantially upon life and appears
as a photographic glimpse of reality.

As in all other writing, the greater the art of the writer in adapting
style to thought, in using language effectively, the better production.
Word-choice, power of phrasing, and skill in artistic construction
count for as much in the short story as in any other type of literature.


                                 VIII
                       TYPES OF THE SHORT STORY

Since the short story represents life, it has as many types as there
are interests in life. It may confine itself to the ordinary events
of life in city or country, at home or abroad; it may concern past
events in various regions; or it may look with a prophetic glance into
the distant future. It may concern nothing but verifiable truth or be
highly imaginative, delicately fanciful, or notably grotesque. It may
draw interest from quaint places and odd characters, or it may appeal
through vividness of action. It may aim to do nothing more than to
arouse interest and to give pleasure for a moment, or it may endeavor
to teach a truth.

Among the many types of the short story, a few are especially worthy of
note.

Folk-lore stories are stories that have been told by common people for
ages. They come direct from the experience and the common sense of
ordinary people. They represent the interests, the faith and the ideals
of the race from which they come.

Fables are very short stories that point out virtues and defects in
human character presented in the guise of animal life.

Legends are stories that have come down to us from a time beyond our
own. They are less simple and direct than the ordinary folk-lore story.
Undoubtedly founded on actual occurrences they have tinged fact with a
poetic beauty that ennobles them and often gives them highly ethical
values.

Stories of adventure emphasize startling events rather than character.

Love stories emphasize courtship and the episodes of romantic love.

Local color stories reveal marked characteristics of custom and
language, and the oddities of life notable in a particular locality.

Dialect stories make use of the language peculiarities found in common
use by a particular type of people.

Stories of the supernatural deal with ghostly characters and uncanny
forces.

Stories of mystery present puzzling problems, and slowly, step by step,
lead the readers to satisfactory solutions.

Animal stories, whether realistic or romantic, concern the lives of
animals.

Stories of allegory, through symbolic characters and events, reveal
moral truths.

Stories of satire, by ridiculing types of character, social customs, or
methods of action, tend to awaken a spirit of reform.

Stories of science present narratives based upon the exposition and the
actual use of scientific facts.

Stories of character emphasize notable personalities, place stress upon
motive and the inner nature rather than upon outer action, and clarify
the reader's understanding of human character.


                                  IX
                  THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE SHORT STORY

Although the beginnings of the short story existed in the past, and
although tales were told in all ages, the short story, in its present
form, is a comparatively new type of literature. The short, complete,
realistic narrative designed to produce a single strong impression,
came into being in the first half of the nineteenth century. The first
writer to point out and to exemplify the principles of the modern short
story was Edgar Allan Poe, 1809-1849.

As early as 4000 B.C. the Egyptians composed the _Tales of the
Magicians_, and in the pre-Christian eras the Greeks and other peoples
wrote short prose narratives. Folk-lore tales go back to very early
times. The celebrated _Gesta Romanorum_ is a collection of anecdotes
and tales drawn from many ages and peoples, including the Greeks, the
Egyptians and the peoples of Asia. In the early periods of the history
of Europe and of England many narratives centered around the supposed
exploits of romantic characters like the ancient Greeks and Trojans,
Alexander the Great, Charlemagne and King Arthur.

In the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries the Italians became
skilful in the telling of tales called _novelle_. Giovanni Boccaccio,
1313-1375, brought together from wide and varied sources a collection
of one hundred such tales in a volume called _Il Decamerone_. He
united the tales by imagining that seven ladies and three gentlemen
who had fled from Florence to avoid the plague, pass their time in
story-telling. His work had the deepest influence on many later
writers, including particularly the English poet, Geoffrey Chaucer,
1340-1400, whose _Canterbury Tales_ re-tell some of Boccaccio's
stories. Chaucer imagines that a number of people, representing all
the types of English life, tell stories as they journey slowly to the
shrine of Thomas à Becket at Canterbury. His stories intimately reveal
the actual England of his day. He is the first great realist.

In the sixteenth century many writers, particularly in Italy, France
and Spain, told ingenious stories that developed new interest in
story-telling and story-reading.

The writing of character studies and the development of periodicals
led, in the eighteenth century, to such essays as _The Sir Roger de
Coverley Papers_, written for _The Spectator_ by Joseph Addison,
1672-1719, and Sir Richard Steele, 1672-1729. The doings of Sir Roger
de Coverley are told so realistically and so entertainingly that it was
evident that such material could be used not only to illustrate the
thought of an essayist but also for its own sake in stories founded on
character.

About the beginning of the nineteenth century stories of an uncanny
nature,--of ghosts and strange events,--the so-called “Gothic”
stories,--became widely popular. Two German writers, E. T. A. Hoffmann,
1776-1822, and Ludwig Tieck, 1773-1853, wrote with such peculiar power
that they led other writers to imitate them. Among the followers of
Tieck and Hoffmann the most notable name is that of Edgar Allan Poe.

Poe's contemporaries, Washington Irving, 1783-1859, and Nathaniel
Hawthorne, 1804-1864, likewise showed the influence of the “Gothic”
school of writing. Irving turned the ghostly into humor, as in _The
Legend of Sleepy Hollow_; Hawthorne wrote of the mysterious in terms
of fancy and allegory, as in _Ethan Brand_, _The Birth Mark_, and
_Rappaccini's Daughter_; Poe directed all his energy to the production
of single effect,--frequently the effect of horror, as in _The Cask of
Amontillado_, _The Black Cat_ and _The Pit and the Pendulum_. Poe's
natural ability as a constructive artist, and his genuine interest in
story-telling, led him to formulate the five principles of the short
story:--brevity, single effect, verisimilitude, the omission of the
non-essential, and finality.

From the time when Poe pointed the way the short story has had an
unparalleled development. French writers like Guy de Maupassant;
British writers like Rudyard Kipling; Russian writers like Count Leo
Tolstoi, and American writers like O. Henry, Richard Harding Davis,
Frank R. Stockton, Mary E. Wilkins Freeman, Thomas Bailey Aldrich, F.
Hopkinson Smith, Jack London, and a thousand others, have carried on
the great tradition.


                                   X
              AUTHORS OF SHORT STORIES WELL WORTH READING

Volumes containing short stories by the following writers will be found
in any public library. Any one who wishes to gain an understanding of
the principles of the short story should read a number of stories by
every writer named in the list.


    _(1875--). Associate Professor of English in the University of
    California. He taught for a time at Harvard and also at Amherst.
    He is a delightful essayist, and contributes frequently to various
    magazines._

  =The writer of a familiar essay selects any subject in which he is
  interested. Sometimes the more trifling the subject seems to be,
  the more delightful is the essay. Trifles, in fact, make up life,
  and around them center many of our deepest interests. The very
  charm of the familiar essay lies in its ability to call attention
  to the value of trifles,--to the little things in life, to little
  events, and to all the odds and ends of human interests.=

  =The familiar essay is nothing more than happy talk that gives us,
  as it were, a walk or a chat with one who has a keen mind, a ready
  wit, and a pleasant spirit.=

  =_The Pup-Dog_ is an unusually excellent illustration of the
  familiar essay. We all love him,--the pup-dog,--the good friend
  about whom Mr. Utter has written so amusingly, so understandingly,
  and so sympathetically. As we read we can see the dog jumping and
  hear him barking; we laugh at his antics; we are, in fact, taking a
  walk with Mr. Utter while he talks to us about his dog,--or our dog.=


Any dog is a pup-dog so long as he prefers a rat, dead or alive, to
chocolate fudge, a moldy bone to sponge cake, a fight with a woodchuck
to hanging round the tea-table for sweet biscuit. Of course he will
show traits of age as years advance, but usually they are physical
traits, not emotional. For the most part dogs’ affections burn warmly,
and their love of life and experience brightly, while life lasts. They
remain young, as poets do. Every dog is a pup-dog, but some are more so
than others.

Most so of all is the Irish terrier. To me he stands as the archetype
of the dog, and the doggier a dog is, the better I like him. I love
the collie; none better. I have lived with him, and ranged the hills
with him in every kind of weather, and you can hardly tell me a story
of his loyalty and intelligence that I cannot go you one better. But
the collie is a gentleman. He has risen from the ranks, to be sure, but
he is every inch the gentleman, and just now I am speaking of dogs.
The terrier is every inch a dog, and the Irish is the terrier _par
excellence_.

The man who mistakes him for an Airedale, as many do, is one who does
not know an Irishman from a Scot. The Airedale has a touch of the
national dourness; I believe that he is a Calvinist at heart, with a
severe sense of personal responsibility. The Irish terrier can atone
vicariously or not at all for his light-hearted sins. The Airedale
takes his romance and his fighting as seriously as an _Alan Breck_. The
Irish terrier has all the imagination and humor of his race; he has a
rollicking air; he is whimsical, warm-hearted, jaunty, and has the gift
of blarney. He loves a scrimmage better than his dinner, but he bears
no malice.

                His fellest earthly foes,
        Cats, he does but affect to hate.

The terrier family is primarily a jolly, good-natured crowd whose
business it is to dig into the lairs of burrowing creatures and fight
them at narrow quarters. The signal for the fight is the attack on
the intrusive nose. You can read this family history in the pup-dog's
treatment of the cat. The cat of his own household with whom he is
brought up he rallies with good-humored banter, but he is less likely
to hurt her than she him. He will take her with him on his morning
round of neighborhood garbage-pails, and even warm her kittens on
his back as he lies in the square of sunshine on the kitchen floor,
till they begin to knead their tiny claws into him in a futile search
for nourishment; then he shakes them patiently off and seeks rest
elsewhere. He will chase any cat as long as she will run; if she
refuses to run, he will dance round her and bark, trying to get up a
game. “Be a sport!” he taunts her. “Take a chance!” But if she claws
his nose, she treads on the tail of his coat, and no Irish gentleman
will stand for that.

Similar are his tactics with human creatures. First he tries a small
bluff to see if he can start anything. If his victim shows signs of
fear, he redoubles his effort, his tail the while signaling huge
delight at his success. If the victim shows fight, he may develop the
attack in earnest. The victim who shows either fear or fight betrays
complete ignorance of dog nature, for the initial bluff is always
naïvely transparent; the pup-dog may have a poker face, but his tail
is a rank traitor. A nest of yellow-jackets in a hole in the ground
challenges his every instinct. He cocks his ear at the subterranean
buzzing, tries a little tentative excavation with cautious paw. Soon
one of the inmates scores on the tip of his nose, and war is declared
in earnest. There are leaping attacks with clashing of teeth, and
wildly gyrating rear-guard actions. Custom cannot stale the charm of
the spot; all summer, so long as there is a wing stirring, hornets
shall be hot i' the mouth.

The degree of youth which the pup-dog attains and holds is that of the
human male of eleven or twelve years. He nurses an inextinguishable
quarrel with the hair-brush. His hatred of the formal bath is chronic,
but he will paddle delightedly in any casual water out of doors,
regardless of temperatures and seasons. At home he will sometimes scoff
at plain, wholesome food, but to the public he gives the impression
that his family systematically starve him, and his dietetic experiments
often have weird and disastrous results. You can never count on his
behavior except on formal occasions, when you know to a certainty that
he will disgrace you. His curiosity is equaled only by his adroitness
in getting out of awkward situations into which it plunges him. His
love of play is unquenchable by weariness or hunger; there is no time
when the sight of a ball will not rouse him to clamorous activity.

For fine clothes he has a satiric contempt, and will almost invariably
manage to land a dirty footprint on white waist-coat or “ice-cream
pants” in the first five minutes of their immaculacy. He is one hundred
per cent. motor-minded; when he is “stung with the splendor of a sudden
thought,” he springs to immediate action. In the absence of any ideas
he relaxes and sleeps with the abandon of a jute door-mat.

Dog meets dog as boy meets boy, with assertions of superiority,
challenge, perhaps fight, followed by friendship and play. No wonder
that with pup-boys the pup-dog is so completely at one; his code
is their code, and whither they go he goes--except to school. With
September come the dull days for him. No more the hordes of pirates
and bandits with bandanas and peaked hats, belts stuck full of dirks
and “ottermaticks,” sweep up and down the sidewalk on bicycles in open
defiance of the law, raiding lawns and gardens, scattering shrieking
tea-parties of little girls and dolls, haling them aboard the lugger
in the next lot and holding them for fabulous ransom. There is always
some one who will pay it with an imposing check signed “Theodore Wilson
Roosevelt Woodrow Rockefeller.” He prances with flopping ears beside
the flying wheels, crouches in ambush, gives tongue in the raid, flies
at the victims and tears their frocks, mounts guard in the cave, and
shares the bandits' last cookie.

But when the pirates become orderly citizens, his day begins after
school and ends with supper. With his paws on the window-sill, his nose
making misty spots on the glass, he watches them as they march away in
the morning, then he makes a perfunctory round of the neighborhood,
inspecting garbage-pails and unwary cats. After that there is nothing
to do but relax in the September sunshine and exist in a coma till
the pirates return and resume their normal functions, except for his
routine attempt to intimidate the postman and the iceman. Perhaps he
might succeed some happy day; who knows?

The pup-dog in the open is the best of companions; his exuberant
vitality and unquenchable zest for things in general give him endless
variety. There are times, perhaps, when you see little of him; he uses
you as a mobile base of operations, and runs an epicycloidal course
with you as moving center, showing only a flash of his tail on one
horizon or the flop of his ears on the other. You hear his wild cries
of excitement when he starts a squirrel or a rabbit. By rare luck you
may be called in time to referee a fight with a woodchuck, or once in a
happy dog's age you may see him, a khaki streak through the underbrush,
in pursuit of a fox.

At last you hear the drumming of his feet on the road behind you; he
shoots past before he can shift gears, wheels, and lands a running jump
on your diaphragm by way of reporting present for duty. Thereafter
he sticks a little closer, popping out into the road or showing his
tousled face through the leaves at intervals of two or three hundred
yards to make sure that you are still on the planet. Then you may
enjoy his indefatigable industry in counting with his nose, his tail
quivering with delight, the chinks of old stone walls. You may light
your pipe and sit by for an hour as he energetically follows his family
tradition in digging under an old stump, shooting the sand out behind
with kangaroo strokes, tugging at the roots with his teeth, and pausing
from time to time to grin at you with a yard of pink tongue completely
surrounded by leaf mold. You may admire his zeal as inspector of
chipmunks, mice, frogs, grasshoppers, crickets, and such small deer.
Anything that lives and tries to get away from him is fair game
except chickens. If round the turn of the road he plumps into a hen
convention, memories of bitter humiliations surge up within him, and he
blushes, and turns his face aside. Other dogs he meets with tentative
growling, bristling, and tail-wagging, by way of asserting that he will
take them on any terms they like; fight or frolic, it is all one to him.

You cannot win his allegiance by feeding him, though he always has his
bit of blarney ready for the cook. He loves all members of the family
with nice discrimination for their weaknesses: the pup-boy who cannot
resist an invitation to romp; the pup-girl who cannot withstand begging
blandishments of nose and paw, but will subvert discipline and share
food with him whenever and wherever she has it. He will welcome with
leapings and gyrations any one of them after a day's absence or an
hour's, but his whole-souled allegiance is to the head of the house;
his is the one voice that speaks with authority; his the first welcome
always when the family returns in a group. That loyalty, burning bright
and true to the last spark of life, that unfailing welcome on which a
man can count more surely than on any human love--indeed, there is no
secret in a man's love for a dog, however we may wonder at the dog's
love for the man. Let Argos and Ulysses[1] stand as the type of it,
though to me it lacks something of the ideal, not in the image of the
dog, but in the conduct of the man. Were I disguised for peril of my
life, and my dog, after the wanderings and dangers of many years,
lifted his head and knew me and then died, I think no craft could
withhold my feelings from betraying me.

“Dogs know their friends,” we say, as if there were mystery in the
knowledge. The password of the fraternity is not hidden; you may hear
it anywhere. It was spoken at my own hearth when the pup-dog, wet
with autumn rain, thrust himself between my guest and the andirons
and began to steam. My guest checked my remonstrance. “Don't disturb
him on my account, you know. I rather like the smell of a wet dog,”
he added apologetically. The word revealed a background that made the
speaker at once and forever my guest-friend. In it I saw boy and dog in
rain and snow on wet trails, their camp in narrow shelter, where they
snuggle together with all in common that they have of food and warmth.
He who shared his boyhood with a pup-dog will always share whatever
is his with members of the fraternity. He will value the wagging of
a stubby tail above all dog-show points and parlor tricks. He will
not be rash to chide affectionate importunity, nor to set for his dog
higher standards than he upholds for himself. Do you never nurse a
grouch and express it in appropriate language? Do you never take direct
action when your feelings get away with you? When the like befalls the
pup-dog, have ready for him such sympathy as he has always ready for
you in your moods. Treat him as an equal, and you will get from him
human and imperfect results.

You will never know exactly what your pup-dog gets from you; he tries
wistfully to tell you, but leaves you still wondering. But you may have
from him a share of his perennial puphood, and you do well to accept
it gratefully whenever he offers it. Take it when it comes, though the
moment seem inopportune. You may be roused just as you settle for a
nap by a moist nose thrust into your hand, two rough brown paws on the
edge of your bunk, a pair of bright eyes peering through a jute fringe.
Up he comes, steps over you, and settles down between you and the
wall with a sigh. Then, if you shut your eyes, you will find that you
are not far from that place up on the hill--the big rock and the two
oaks--where the pup-boy that used to be you used to snuggle down with
that first old pup-dog you ever had.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What is the effect of the title?

     2. How does Mr. Utter make us love the dog?

     3. What knowledge of dog life does the writer show?

     4. Point out words or expressions that are usually applied only to
        human beings, that are here applied to dogs.

     5. Point out adjective effects.

     6. How does the writer make the dog seem amusing?

     7. How does the writer make the dog seem admirable?

     8. What human characteristics are attributed to the dog?

     9. Point out noteworthy examples of humor.

    10. Show how the writer employs detail as a means of emphasis.

    11. Point out examples of especially effective metaphor.

    12. What is said concerning the pup-boy and the pup-girl?

    13. How does the essay make us feel toward dogs?

    14. What is the effect of the closing sentences?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Select for your subject some animal with which you are intimately
familiar, and in which you are especially and sympathetically
interested. Write about that animal in such a way that you will
bring to the surface its most humorous qualities and its most
admirable qualities. Give a great number of details concerning the
animal's habits, but give those details in a gossipy manner. Use
quotations, if you can, or make allusions to books. Make all your work
emphasize goodness. Make your closing paragraph your most effective
paragraph,--one that will appeal to sentiment.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[1] According to Homer's _Odyssey_ when Ulysses returned after many
years of wandering, his old dog “Argos” recognized him, even in
disguise.




                            CHEWING GUM[2]
                       By CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER


    _(1829-1900). A celebrated American essayist and editor. For many
    years he wrote brilliant papers for_ Harper's Magazine _in the
    departments called “The Editor's Drawer” and “The Editor's Study.”
    He became the first President of the National Institute of Arts
    and Letters. He was a great influence for good. Among his books
    are_ My Summer in a Garden; Back-Log Studies; In the Wilderness;
    The Relation of Literature to Life; As We Were Saying; Their
    Pilgrimage. _He edited the valuable “American Men of Letters
    Series,” and the remarkable work called_ Library of the World's
    Best Literature, _a collection of extracts from the world's
    literature, with which every student should be acquainted._

  =The familiar essay takes for its subject anything that awakens the
  interest of the essayist. Charles Dudley Warner wrote with freedom
  and humor on a great number of subjects that in themselves suggest
  light and humorous treatment rather than serious thinking. Among
  his many informal essays is the one that follows, entitled _Chewing
  Gum_.=

  =What Mr. Warner says in the essay is by no means serious. It is
  like the spoken reflections of an amused observer who has had his
  attention attracted to the common American habit of chewing gum in
  public. At the same time, under the kindly and facetious remarks,
  is an undercurrent of satire--and satire means criticism.=


In language that is unfortunately understood by the greater portion
of the people who speak English, thousands are saying on the first
of January, a far-off date that it is wonderful any one has lived to
see--“Let us have a new deal!” It is a natural exclamation, and does
not necessarily mean any change of purpose. It always seems to a man
that if he could shuffle the cards he could increase his advantages in
the game of life, and, to continue the figure which needs so little
explanation, it usually appears to him that he could play anybody
else's hand better than his own. In all the good resolutions of
the new year, then, it happens that perhaps the most sincere is the
determination to get a better hand. Many mistake this for repentance
and an intention to reform, when generally it is only the desire for
a new shuffle of the cards. Let us have a fresh pack and a new deal,
and start fair. It seems idle, therefore, for the moralist to indulge
in a homily about annual good intentions, and habits that ought to be
dropped or acquired, on the first of January. He can do little more
than comment on the passing show.

It will be admitted that if the world at this date is not socially
reformed it is not the fault of the Drawer,[3] and for the reason that
it has been not so much a critic as an explainer and encourager. It
is in the latter character that it undertakes to defend and justify
a national industry that has become very important within the past
ten years. A great deal of capital is invested in it, and millions of
people are actively employed in it. The varieties of chewing gum that
are manufactured would be a matter of surprise to those who have paid
no attention to the subject, and who may suppose that the millions of
mouths they see engaged in its mastication have a common and vulgar
taste. From the fact that it can be obtained at the apothecary's, an
impression has got abroad that it is medicinal. This is not true.
The medical profession do not use it, and what distinguishes it
from drugs--that they also do not use--is the fact that they do not
prescribe it. It is neither a narcotic nor a stimulant. It cannot
strictly be said to soothe or to excite. The habit of using it differs
totally from that of the chewing of tobacco or the dipping of snuff.
It might, by a purely mechanical operation, keep a person awake, but
no one could go to sleep chewing gum. It is in itself neither tonic
nor sedative. It is to be noticed also that the gum habit differs
from the tobacco habit in that the aromatic and elastic substance is
masticated, while the tobacco never is, and that the mastication leads
to nothing except more mastication. The task is one that can never be
finished. The amount of energy expended in this process if capitalized
or conserved would produce great results. Of course the individual does
little, but if the power evolved by the practice in a district school
could be utilized, it would suffice to run the kindergarten department.
The writer has seen a railway car--say in the West--filled with young
women, nearly every one of whose jaws and pretty mouths was engaged
in this pleasing occupation; and so much power was generated that it
would, if applied, have kept the car in motion if the steam had been
shut off--at least it would have furnished the motive for illuminating
the car by electricity.

This national industry is the subject of constant detraction, satire,
and ridicule by the newspaper press. This is because it is not
understood, and it may be because it is mainly a female accomplishment:
the few men who chew gum may be supposed to do so by reason of
gallantry. There might be no more sympathy with it in the press if
the real reason for the practice were understood, but it would be
treated more respectfully. Some have said that the practice arises from
nervousness--the idle desire to be busy without doing anything--and
because it fills up the pauses of vacuity in conversation. But this
would not fully account for the practice of it in solitude. Some
have regarded it as in obedience to the feminine instinct for the
cultivation of patience and self-denial--patience in a fruitless
activity, and self-denial in the eternal act of mastication without
swallowing. It is no more related to these virtues than it is to the
habit of the reflective cow in chewing her cud. The cow would never
chew gum. The explanation is a more philosophical one, and relates
to a great modern social movement. It is to strengthen and develop
and make more masculine the lower jaw. The critic who says that this
is needless, that the inclination in women to talk would adequately
develop this, misses the point altogether. Even if it could be proved
that women are greater chatterers than men, the critic would gain
nothing. Women have talked freely since creation, but it remains
true that a heavy, strong lower jaw is a distinctively masculine
characteristic. It is remarked that if a woman has a strong lower jaw
she is like a man. Conversation does not create this difference, nor
remove it; for the development of the lower jaw in women constant
mechanical exercise of the muscles is needed. Now, a spirit of
emancipation, of emulation, is abroad, as it ought to be, for the
regeneration of the world. It is sometimes called the coming to the
front of woman in every act and occupation that used to belong almost
exclusively to man. It is not necessary to say a word to justify this.
But it is often accompanied by a misconception, namely, that it is
necessary for woman to be like man, not only in habits, but in certain
physical characteristics. No woman desires a beard, because a beard
means care and trouble, and would detract from feminine beauty, but to
have a strong and, in appearance, a resolute underjaw may be considered
a desirable note of masculinity, and of masculine power and privilege,
in the good time coming. Hence the cultivation of it by the chewing of
gum is a recognizable and reasonable instinct, and the practice can
be defended as neither a whim nor a vain waste of energy and nervous
force. In a generation or two it may be laid aside as no longer
necessary, or men may be compelled to resort to it to preserve their
supremacy.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Why does the writer make use of some very colloquial
        expressions?

     2. Why did he use a number of long and somewhat formal words?

     3. In what sense is the essay a New Year's essay?

     4. Show how the author produces humor.

     5. Show how the author avoids harshness of criticism.

     6. What makes the essay forceful?

     7. In what respects is the essay fantastic?

     8. What advantage does the writer gain by appearing to support the
        habit of chewing gum?

     9. Point out examples of kindly satire.

    10. What is the author's purpose?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

You are to write of some habit that is common and that is more
or less annoying to well-bred people. Make your words, in mock
seriousness, appear to defend the habit that you ridicule. Make
your style of writing somewhat ponderous, as though you were
writing with the utmost gravity, but be sure to write in such a way
that your essay will convey your sense of the ridiculous. Let your
whole essay so ridicule the annoying habit that you will tend to
destroy it.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[2] From _As We Were Saying_, by Charles Dudley Warner. Copyright by
Harper and Brothers.

[3] Drawer. The _Editor's Drawer_ of _Harper's Magazine_ for which Mr.
Warner wrote many of his best essays.




                        THE MYSTERY OF AH SING
                          By ROBERT L. DUFFUS


    _An editorial writer for the New York Globe, to which, on October
    5, 1921, he contributed the following humorous editorial article._

  =As we go about in daily life various people attract our attention;
  their peculiarities amuse us, and we make semi-humorous but kindly
  remarks concerning them. Such remarks are the germs of essays like
  the following.=

  =In the essay, _The Mystery of Ah Sing_, there is humor but not a
  single unkind word. The essay makes us smile, but with sympathy and
  understanding. Such essays, trivial as they may be, are restful and
  pleasing.=


Ah Sing comes on Tuesdays to get the washing and on Saturdays to bring
it back. He is an urbane, smiling person, who appears to view life
impersonally and dispassionately. One would say that he realized that
the career of Ah Sing was not of prime importance in a population so
numerous and a universe so extensive. He loves to ask questions. How
old is the mistress of the house? Where did she come from? How much
does the master of the house earn? What does he do? Why haven't they
any children? Where did they get all the books and pictures?

Ah Sing always wants to know about the vacations, both before and
after taking, and looks intelligent when places like Nantucket and the
Thousand Islands are mentioned. He follows the family fortunes like an
old retainer, and seems to possess a kind of feudal loyalty. It would
be morally impossible, not to say physically, to give the washing to
any one but Ah Sing. He would come for it, and the mistress of the
house would sink through the floor with contrition and embarrassment.
He may die out of his job, or go back to China out of it, there to live
like a mandarin, but he will not be fired out of it. Never will he join
the army of unemployed; never will he stand humbly asking work. He is
a monopoly, an institution, a friend.

So far one gets with Ah Sing. To lose him would be like losing a
beloved pipe or a comfortable pair of slippers. He belongs amid the
furniture of living, and is as simple, homely, and admirable as
grandpa's picture on the wall. But what is Ah Sing thinking about? What
is going on across that gulf which separates him from us? How many
transmigrations must we all go through before we could know Ah Sing as
well as we know the family from Indiana which moved in next door last
week? How shall we penetrate to the soul of Ah Sing?

If we could answer these questions we could present ourselves forthwith
at Washington with the solution of the world's most vexatious problem.
But the answers are dark, Ah Sing is remote, and the East and the West
have not yet met.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

    1. In what respects is Ah Sing a mystery?

    2. Why did the author write about Ah Sing?

    3. What are Ah Sing's amusing characteristics?

    4. What are Ah Sing's best characteristics?

    5. Show that the author's language is original.

    6. Show that the essay increases in effect toward the end.

    7. How does the author avoid unkindness or satire?

    8. How does the essay affect the reader?

                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Write, with all kindness, about some one who amuses you. Do not include
in your essay anything that will be in the nature of fault-finding or
complaint. Point out, in a humorous way, the admirable and praiseworthy
characteristics of the person about whom you write. Instead of writing
a list of characteristics use original expressions that will indicate
the real spirit of the character.




                                OLD DOC
                             By OPIE READ


    _(1852--). An American journalist, noted for his work as Editor of_
    The Arkansas Traveller. _Among his books, most of which concern
    life in Arkansas, are_: Len Gansett; My Young Master; An Arkansas
    Planter; Up Terrapin River; A Kentucky Colonel; On the Suwanee
    River; Miss Polly Lop; The Captain's Romance; The Jucklins.

  =The character sketch is interesting for the same reason that gossip
  is interesting: we notice our neighbors and are curious to learn
  more about them. We are all sharp observers of our fellows. We see
  their oddities, their cranks, and their amusing habits just as
  clearly as we see their virtues. We laugh and we admire--in much
  the same spirit that a mother laughs at her baby, however much she
  loves it.=

  =Character sketches have been popular for many centuries. Chaucer's
  _Prologue_ to _The Canterbury Tales_ is really a series of
  shrewdly-true character sketches keenly tipped with humor, and full
  of genuine respect for goodness. Sir Thomas Overbury (1581-1613)
  wrote a number of strongly pointed sketches of character. A hundred
  years later Joseph Addison and Sir Richard Steele conceived the
  whimsical, good-hearted Sir Roger de Coverley and his company of
  associates.=

  =Out of such work grew not only the character sketch of to-day but
  also material for the short story and the novel.=

  =Mr. Read's presentation of the country doctor of the Old South is a
  striking example of the character sketch. Following the example set
  by Addison in 1711 Mr. Read first describes the character and then
  tells an anecdote that reveals personality. The entire sketch is
  redolent with good-humor.=


His house was old, with cedar-trees about it, a big yard, and in the
corner a small office. In this professional hut there was only one
window, the glass of which was dim with dust blown from the road. In
the gentle breeze the lilacs and the roses swopped their perfume, while
the guinea-hen arose from her cool nest, dug beneath the dahlias,
to chase a katydid along the fence, and then with raucous cry to
shatter the silence. The furnishings of the office were less than
modest. In one corner a swayed bed threatened to fall, in another a
wash-stand stood epileptic on three legs. Nailed against the wall
was a protruding cabinet, giving off sick-room memories. The village
druggist, compounder of the essences of strange and peculiar “yarbs,”
might have bitter and pungent medicines, but Old Doc, himself an
extractor of wild juices, had discovered the secret of the swamp. To go
into his office and to come forth with no sign was a confession of the
loss of smell. Sheep-shearing fills the nostrils with woolly dullness,
but sheep-shearers could scent Old Doc as he drove along the road.

In every country the rural doctor is a natural sprout from the soil.
His profession is almost as old as the daybreak of time. He bled
the ancient Egyptian, blistered the knight of the Middle Ages, and
poisoned the arrow of the Iroquois. He has been preserved in fiction,
pickled in the drama, spiced in romance, and peppered in satire; but
nowhere was he so pronounced a character as in America, in the South.
He knew politics, but was not a politician. He looked upon man as a
machinist viewing an engine, but was not an atheist. He cautioned
health and flattered sickness. He listened with more patience to an
old woman harping on her trouble than to a man in his prime relating
his experience. His books were few, and the only medical journal found
in his office was a sample copy. When his gathered lore failed him, he
was wise in silence. To confess to any sort of ignorance would have
crippled his trade. It was an art to keep loose things from rattling
in his head when he shook it, and of this art he was a perfect master.
In raiment he was not over-adorned, but near him you felt that you
were in the presence of clothes. Philosophy's trousers might bag at
the knees, theology's black vestment might be shy a button, art might
wear a burr entangled in its tresses, and even the majesty of the law
might go forth in slippers gnawed by a playful puppy; but old doc's
“duds,” strong as they were in nostril penetration, must hug the image
of neatness. He was usually four years behind the city's fashion, but
this was shrewdly studied, for to dress too much after the manner of
the flowing present would have branded him a foppish follower. The men
might carp at his clean shirt every day, but it won favor with the
women; and while robust medicine may steal secret delight from seeing
two maul-fisted men punch each other in a ring, it must openly profess
a preference for the scandals that shock society.

At no place along the numerous roads traversed by old doc was there a
sign-post with a finger pointing toward the attainment of an ultimate
ambition. No senate house, no woolsack of greatness, waited for him.
The chill of foul weather was his most natural atmosphere; and should
the dark night turn from rain to sleet, it was then that he heard a
knock and a “Hello!” at his door. Down through the miry bottom-land
and up the flint hillside flashed the light of his gig-lamp, striking
responsive shine from the eye of the fascinated wolf. The farther he
had to travel, the less likely was he to collect his bill. Usury might
sell the widow's cow, for no one expected business to have a daintiness
of touch; but if Doc sued for his fee, he was met even by the court
with a sour look.

A summons to court as an expert witness in a murder trial gold-starred
the banner of his career. It was then that he turned back to his
heavy book, used mainly to prop the door open. Out of this lexicon
he dug up words to confound the wise lawyer. It was in vain that the
judge commanded him to talk not like the man in the moon, but like a
man of this earth; he was not to be shaken from a pedestal that had
cost him sweat to mount. The jury sat amazed at his learning. Asked
to explain the meaning of a term, he would proceed to heap upon it a
pile of incomprehensible jargon. It was like cracking the bones of the
skeleton that stood behind his door, and giving to each splinter a
sesquipedalian name. When told that he might “stand down,” he walked
off to enjoy his victory. At the tavern, in the evening, he might be
invited to sit in the game, done with the hesitating timidity of awed
respect; but at cards it was discovered that he was an easy dabbler in
common talk, not to say the profanity of the flat-boatmen.

Out of this atmosphere there arises the vision of old Doctor Rickney of
Mississippi. He had appeared in court as an expert witness, and the
county newspaper had given him a column of monstrous words, written
by the doctor himself. He had examined the judge for life insurance,
and it was hinted that he had been invited to attend a meeting of the
medical convention, away off in Philadelphia. His professional cup was
now about to foam over, when there fell an evil time.

Bill Saunders, down with a sort of swamp fever, was told by Dr. Rickney
that his recovery was impossible. Bill was stubborn, and declined to
accept Doc's verdict.

“Why, you poor old sot,” said Doc, “you must be nearer the end than I
thought, since you have so little mind as to doubt my word. Here's your
fever so high that it has almost melted my thermometer, and yet you
question my professional forecast. And, besides, don't you know that
you have ruined your constitution with liquor?”

Bill blew a hot breath.

“I don't know nothin' about constitutions nur the statuary of
limitations, but I'm snickered if I'm goin' to die to please you nur
nobody. All I need right now is possum baked along with about a peck of
yams.”

“Possum! Why, by eleven-thirty to-night you'll be as dead as any
possum.”

Bill drew another hot breath, and the leaves on a branch of honeysuckle
peeping in at the open window were seen to wither with heat.

“I've got a hoss out thar in the stable, Doc, an' he's jes as good as
any hoss you ever rid. An' I tell you whut I'll do: I'll bet him ag'in
yo' hoss that I'll be up an' around in five weeks.”

Doc gave him a pitying look.

“All right; I'll just take that bet.”

Doc told it about the neighborhood, and along toward midnight, sitting
in the rear room of a drug-store, he took out his watch, looked at it,
and remarked:

“Well, by this time Bill Saunders is dead, and his horse belongs to me.”

The druggist spoke.

“I know the horse, and would like to have him. What'll you take for
him, Doc?”

“Take for him! That horse is worth a hundred and fifty of as bright
gold dollars as was ever dug out of the earth. Take for him!” says he.
“Ain't he worth it, Nick?”

Nick, a yellowish lout, was sitting on the floor, with his back
against the wall. For the most part his requirement of society was a
mouthful of tobacco and a place to spit, and of the latter he was not
over-careful. He added no more to civilization than worm-blight adds to
a grape-vine, but without him no native drama could have been written.
He was as native to the neighborhood as a wrinkle is to a ram's horn.
In the absence of all other wit, he knew where his interest lay.
Therefore he haggled not to respond to Doc's appeal. Doc had steadied
his wife down from the high shakes of ague, had time and again reminded
Nick of that fact, but had not yet received the five bushels of corn
and the four pumpkins of average size, the physician's legitimate levy.
Here was a chance on Nick's part to throw off at least two bushels. He
arose, and dusted the seat of his brown jeans.

“Doc,” said he, “nobody don't know no mo' about nobody's hoss nur I do.
An' I'm sayin' it without the fear of bein' kotch in a lie that Bill's
hoss is wuth two hundred an' seventy-fi' dollars of as good money as
ever built a church.”

“You've heard him,” was Doc's triumphant turn to the druggist. “But let
me tell you. About a half-hour from now I've got to catch the _Lady
Blanche_ for Memphis, on my way to attend the medical convention in
Philadelphia. I've got to read a paper on snake-bite.”

Nick broke in upon him.

“I'll bet it's the Guv'ment that is a axin' you to do it.”

“Well, we won't discuss that,” was Doc's dismissal of the subject. Then
he turned again to the druggist. “Got to get to that convention; and as
I'll have a good deal of entertaining to do, I'll need a hundred extra.
So you just give me a hundred dollars and take the horse. But you'll
have to be quick about it, for I just heard the _Lady Blanche_ blowing
around the bend.”

The druggist snatched at the knob or his safe, swung the door open, and
seized a hundred dollars.

One afternoon, five weeks later, when the _Lady Blanche_ touched the
shore on her way down, Old Doc stepped off. There on a bale of cotton,
smoking a cob pipe, sat Bill Saunders.

“W'y, hello, Doc!”

Doc dropped his carpet-bag, caught up the tail of his coat, and with it
blotted the sweat on his brow.

“Fine day,” said Bill. “'Lowed we'd have a little rain, but the cloud
looked like it had business summers else. An' by the way, Doc, up whar
you been what's that liquor as distroys the constitution wuth by the
gallon?”

Doc reached down and took up his carpet-bag.

“Bill Saunders, sir, I don't want anything to do with you. I gave you
my confidence, but you have deceived me. And now, sir, your lack of
integrity----”

“Gives me a hoss,” Bill interrupted. “An' say, Doc, I seed the druggist
man jest now, an' he said suthin' about a hundred dollars you owed him.”

Doc walked up to the cotton-bale and placed his carpet-bag on it, close
beside Bill.

“Saunders,” said he, “in this thing is a pistol nearly a foot and a
half long. Now I'll give you my horse all right, even if you are the
most unreliable man I ever saw, and I'll pay the druggist his hundred;
but if you go around the neighborhood boasting that you got well after
I gave you up, something is going to flash, and it won't be out of a
black bottle, either, but right out of Old Miss Betsy, here in this
carpet-bag. I don't blame you for getting well, as a sort of a lark,
you understand; but when you make a serious affair of it, you hurt my
professional pride. Old Miss Betsy is right in here. Do you gather me?”

“I pick up yo' threads putty well, Doc, I think.”

“All right; and see that with them threads you sew up your mouth.
You may be proof against the pizen of the swamp, but you ain't proof
against the jolt of a lead-mine. That's all.”


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. How does the description of the doctor's home emphasize
        character?

     2. What was the doctor's ability?

     3. How does the writer make the doctor a universal character as
        well as a local character?

     4. How does the writer produce humor?

     5. How does the writer arouse our respect for the doctor?

     6. How does the writer arouse our sympathy?

     7. What character trait does the anecdote reveal?

     8. Why does the writer use so much conversation in telling the
        anecdote?

     9. What advantage does the writer gain by ending the sketch so
        abruptly?

    10. How does the sketch affect the reader?





                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Select for your subject a person in whom you see many laughable traits,
but whom you really admire. Sum up his characteristics briefly and
suggestively. Make your humor the kind that will awaken smiles but not
ridicule. Use exaggeration in moderation. Be particularly careful to
select words that will convey the half-humorous, half-serious thought
that you wish to communicate. End your sketch by telling an anecdote
that will emphasize one or more of the characteristics that you have
mentioned. Tell the anecdote in a “snappy” way, with crisp dialogue.




                          CHRISTMAS SHOPPING
                          By HELEN DAVENPORT


    _(1882--). Mrs. Helen Davenport Gibbons is a graduate of Bryn Mawr.
    Her literary work appears in various publications. Among her books
    are_ The Red Rugs of Tarsus; Les Turcs ont Passe Là!; A Little Gray
    Home in France; Paris Vistas.

  =A good essay is much like part of a conversation,--the part spoken
  by an interesting speaker. It is breezy, unconventional, and free
  in its use of familiar terms. How well all this is brought out in
  the following extract from an essay on Christmas.=


My husband and I would not miss that day-before-Christmas last-minute
rush for anything. And even if I risk seeming to talk against the
sane and humane “shop-early-for-Christmas” propaganda, I am going to
say that the fun and joy of Christmas shopping is doing it on the
twenty-fourth. Avoid the crowds? I don't want to! I want to get right
in the middle of them. I want to shove my way up to counters. I want
to buy things that catch my eye and that I never thought of buying
and wouldn't buy on any day in the year but December twenty-fourth.
I want to spend more money than I can afford. I want to experience
that panicky feeling that I really haven't enough things, and to worry
over whether my purchases can be divided fairly among my quartet. I
want to go home after dark, reveling in the flare of lamps lighting
up mistletoe, holly wreaths, and Christmas-trees on hawkers' carts,
stopping here and there to buy another pound of candy or a box of dates
or a foolish bauble for the tree. I want to shove bundle after bundle
into the arms of my protesting husband and remind him that Christmas
comes but once a year until he becomes profane. And, once home, on what
other winter evening would you find pleasure in dumping the whole lot
on your bed, adding to the jumble of toys and books already purchased
or sent by friends, and, all other thoughts banished, calmly making the
children's piles despite aching back and legs, impatient husband, cross
servants, and a dozen dinner-guests waiting in the drawing-room?


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

    1. By what rhetorical means does the writer communicate her emotion?

    2. Show how the writer makes detail contribute to effect.




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Write on a subject in which you think you are, perhaps, excusably
foolish. Be frankly honest and genuinely enthusiastic. Write in
such a way that you will make your readers sympathize with you
in your “foolishness.”




                             SUNDAY BELLS
                         By GERTRUDE HENDERSON


    _At different times Miss Henderson has lived in Indiana, California
    and New York. During the World War she gave active patriotic
    service. She contributes to various publications._

  =The bells of Sunday have given subjects to many poets and to many
  essayists. Their sound is full of suggestions of peace, calm and
  the solemnity of worship.=

  =The writer of the following essay expresses, as she says, the
  emotions of many people. It is that seizing upon what is, at the
  same time, intensely personal and yet universal that gives the
  essay its power.=

  =Although the essay is written in a gossipy style it has a quiet
  spirit entirely in harmony with its subject.=


Are all of us potentially devotees, I wonder. When the bells ring and
I look up to the aspiring steeples against the sky in the middle of
a Sunday morning, or when I hear them sounding upon the quiet of the
Sunday evening dusk or sending their clear-toned invitation out through
the secular bustle of the mid-week streets and in at doors and windows,
summoning, summoning, there is that in me that hears them and starts
up and would obey. It must be something my grandmothers left there--my
long line of untraceable grandmothers back, back through the hundreds
of years. I wonder if in all the other people of this questioning
generation whose thoughts have separated them from the firm, sustaining
certainties of the past the same ghostly allegiance rises, the same
vague emotions stir and quiver at the evoking of the Sunday bells.
I should think it altogether likely, for I have never found that in
anything very real in me I am at all different from everybody else I
meet.

The Sunday bells! I sit in the morning quiet and I hear them ringing
near. They are not so golden-voiced, those first bells, as if they
had been more lately made; but I think it may be they go the deeper
into my feelings for that. Some people pass, leisurely at first,
starting early and strolling at ease through the peaceful Sunday
morning on the way to church, talking together as they go: ladies,
middle-aged and elderly, the black-dressed Sunday ladies whose serene
wontedness suggests that they have passed this very way to that very
goal one morning in seven since their lives began; a father with his
boy and girl; three frolicsome youngsters together in their Sunday
clothes loitering through the sunny square with many divagations,
and chattering happily as they go,--I am not so sure their blithe
steps will end at the church door,--but yet they may; a young girl,
fluttering pink ruffles and hurrying. I think she is going to sing in
the choir and must be there early. She has the manner of one who fears
she is already the least moment late for flawless earliness. Other
young girls with their young men are walking consciously together in
tempered Sunday sweethearting. And so on and on till the bell has rung
a last summons, and the music has risen, and given way to silence, and
the last belated comers have hurried by, looking at accusing watches,
and gone within, to lose their consciousness of guilt in that cool
interior whose concern is with eternity, not time. Along all the other
streets of the diverse town I fancy them streaming, gathering in at
the various doors on one business bent, obeying one impulse in their
many ways, one common, deep-planted instinct that not one of them can
philosophize back to its ultimate, sure source, though it masters
them all--the source that is deeper than lifelong habit or childhood
teaching or the tradition of the race; the source out of which all
these came in their dim beginnings.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

    1. How does the writer show that her subject has universal appeal?

    2. Why does she describe people on their way to church?

    3. What types of people does she mention?

    4. How does the writer give the essay a quiet spirit?

    5. Point out examples of repetition.

    6. What is the effect of the last sentence?





                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Show that your subject is one that appeals to almost every person,
and that it appeals to you in particular. Show the connection
between your subject and various types of people. Give your essay
a serious note, especially at the close.




                               DISCOVERY
                          By GEORGES DUHAMEL


    _(1884--). A surgeon in the service of the French army during
    the World War. He turned to authorship as a means of distraction
    from the horrors of war. His work entitled_ Civilization _won the
    Goncourt Prize for Fiction. Among his other works are_ The New Book
    of Martyrs; Combat; Heart's Domain.

  =An open eye and an attentive ear do much to make life
  enjoyable,--that is the thought of Georges Duhamel's essay on
  _Discovery_. It is evident that the writer deeply appreciates the
  pleasure of exploration, even though the exploration be among the
  humblest and least-noticed objects. Perhaps some recent experience
  turned his attention to the thought, “Discovery is delightful.” At
  any rate, he has seized upon the idea,--as though it were one of
  the things that he has discovered,--and writes his meditation on
  it with the easy interest with which he observes the gravel in a
  bubbling brook or a lily floating on the surface of the water.=


Discovery! It seems as if this word were one of a cluster of magic
keys--one of those keys that make all doors open before our feet.
We know that to possess is to understand, to comprehend. That, in a
supreme sense, is what discovery means.

To understand the world can well be compared to the peaceful, enduring
wealth of the great landowner; to make discoveries is, in addition to
this, to come into sudden, overflowing riches, to have one of these
sudden strokes of fortune which double a man's capital by a windfall
that seems like an inspiration.

The life of a child who grows up unconstrainedly is a chain of
discoveries, an enriching of each moment, a succession of dazzling
surprises.

I cannot go on without thinking of the beautiful letter I received
to-day about my little boy. It said:

   Your son knows how to find extraordinary riches, inexhaustible
   treasures, even in the barrenest fields, and when I set him on the
   grass, I cannot guess the things he is going to bring out of it.
   He has an admirable appreciation of the different kinds of soil;
   if he finds sand, he rolls in it, buries himself in it, grabs up
   handfuls, and flings them delightedly over his hair. Yesterday he
   discovered a mole-hole, and you cannot imagine all the pleasure he
   took in it. He also knows the joys of a slope which one can descend
   on one's feet or head over heels, or by rolling, and which is also
   splendid for somersaults. Every rise of ground interests him, and
   I wish you could see him pushing his cart up them. There is a
   little ditch where on the edge he likes to lie with his feet at
   the bottom and his body pressed tight against the slope. He played
   interminably the other day on top of a big stone. He kept stroking
   it; he had truly found a new pleasure there. And as for me, I find
   my wealth in watching him discover all these things.

It is thus a child of fifteen months gives man lessons in appreciation.

Unfortunately, most systems of education do their best to substitute
hackneyed phrases for the sense of discovery. A series of conventions
are imposed on the child; he ceases to discover and experience the
objects in the world in pinning them down with dry, formal labels by
the help of which he can recognize them. He reduces his moral life
little by little to the dull routine of classifying pins and pegs and
in this fashion begins the journey to maturity.

Discover! You must discover in order to be rich. You must not be
satisfied to accept the night good humoredly, to go to sleep after a
day empty of all discovery. There are no small victories, no negligible
discoveries; if you bring back from your day's journey the memory of
the white cloud of pollen the ripe plantain lets fall in May at the
stroke of your switch, it may be little, but your day is not lost. If
you have only encountered on the road the tiny urn of jade which the
moss delightedly balances at the end of its frail stem, it may seem
little, but be patient. To-morrow will perhaps be more fruitful. If for
the first time you have seen a swarm of bees go by in search of a hive,
or heard the snapping pods of the broom scattering its seeds in the
heat, you have nothing to complain of, and life ought to seem beautiful
to you. If, on that same day, you have also enriched your collection of
humanity with a beautiful or an interesting face, confess that you will
go to sleep upon a treasure.

There will be days when you will be like a peaceful sovereign seated
under a tree: the whole world will come to render homage to you and
bring you tribute. Those will be your days of contemplation.

There will be days when you will have to take your staff and wallet
and go and seek your living along the highways. On these days you must
be contented with what you gain from observing, from hunting. Have no
fear: it will be beautiful.

It is sweet to receive; it is thrilling to take. You must by turns
charm and compel the universe. When you have gazed long at the tawny
rock, with its lichens, its velvety mosses, it is most amusing to
lift it up. Then you will discover its weight and the little nest of
orange-bellied salamanders that live there in the cool.

You have only to lie among the hairy mints and the horse-tails to
admire the religious dance of the dragon-fly going to lay its eggs
in the brook, or to hear in early June the clamorous orgy of the
tree-toads, drunk with love; and it is very pleasant, too, to dip one's
hands in the water, to stir the gravel at the bottom, whence bubble up
a thousand tiny, agile existences or to pick the fleshy stalk of the
water-lily that lifts its tall head out of the depths.

There are people who have passed a plant a thousand times without
ever thinking of picking one of its leaves and rubbing it between
their fingers. Do this always, and you will discover hundreds of new
perfumes. Each of these perfumes may seem quite insignificant, and yet
when you have breathed it once, you wish to breathe it again; you think
of it often, and something has been added to you.

It is an unending game, and it resembles love, this possession of a
world that now yields itself, now conceals itself. It is a serious,
divine game.

Marcus Aurelius,[4] whose philosophy cannot be called futile, does
not hesitate, amid many austere counsels, to urge his friends to the
contemplation of those natural spectacles that are always rich in
meaning and suggestion. He writes:

   Everything that comes forth from the works of nature has its grace
   and beauty. The face wrinkles in middle age, the very ripe olive
   is almost decomposed, but the fruit has, for all that, a unique
   beauty. The bending of the corn toward the earth, the bushy brows
   of the lion, the foam that drips from the mouth of the wild boar
   and many other things, considered by themselves, are far from being
   beautiful; nevertheless, since they are accessory to the works of
   nature, they embellish them and add a certain charm. Thus a man
   who has a sensitive soul, and who is capable of deep reflection,
   will see in whatever exists in the world hardly anything that is
   not pleasant in his eyes, since it is related in some way to the
   totality of things.

This philosopher is right, as the poets are right. As our days permit
us, let us reflect and observe; let us never cease to see in each
fragment of the great whole a pure source of happiness. Like children
drawn into a marvelous dance, let us not relax our hold upon the hand
that sustains us and directs us.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

    1. Point out examples of figurative language.

    2. Define what the writer means by “discovery.”

    3. What is the value of discovery?

    4. What joy does a child possess that many grown people do not have?

    5. What criticism of modern education does the writer make?

    6. What is the writer's ideal of education?

    7. What sort of discoveries does the writer wish people to make?

    8. What powers does the writer wish people to cultivate?

    9. What sort of life does the writer admire?

   10. What is the advantage of quoting from Marcus Aurelius?




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Think of something you do that gives you real pleasure: that
is your subject. Your object is to lead other people to share in
what pleases you.

Intimate, as the author does, what various thrills may be experienced.
Write enthusiastically, and, if possible, with charm. Do not command
your reader, but entice him into the joys that you possess. Give a
supporting quotation from some one whose words will be respected.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[4] Marcus Aurelius (121-180). A Roman emperor and soldier, author of
_The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius_, a book of such wise and kindly
philosophy that it is still widely popular.




                            THE FURROWS[5]
                       By GILBERT K. CHESTERTON


    _(1874). One of the greatest of living English essayists. He is
    notable for originality of thought and expression. His habit of
    turning ideas, as it were, “upside-down,” makes his work peculiarly
    challenging. He has written under many types of literature.
    Among his books are_ Robert Browning; Charles Dickens; Heretics;
    Tremendous Trifles; Alarms and Discursions; The Victorian Age in
    Literature.

  =Many essays are like poems: from some subject that lies well within
  common experience they spring to a height of emotion. Such is the
  case with the essay that follows. Mr. Chesterton looked upon an
  ordinary plowed field. At once his imagination took fire and he saw
  in the field a significance, a beauty, that the everyday observer
  might not note. It is the interpretation of what Carlyle calls “the
  ideal in the actual” that makes Mr. Chesterton's essay so appealing.=


As I see the corn grow green all about my neighborhood, there rushes on
me for no reason in particular a memory of the winter. I say “rushes,”
for that is the very word for the old sweeping lines of the plowed
fields. From some accidental turn of a train-journey or a walking tour,
I saw suddenly the fierce rush of the furrows. The furrows are like
arrows; they fly along an arc of sky. They are like leaping animals;
they vault an inviolable hill and roll down the other side. They are
like battering battalions; they rush over a hill with flying squadrons
and carry it with a cavalry charge. They have all the air of Arabs
sweeping a desert, of rockets sweeping the sky, of torrents sweeping
a watercourse. Nothing ever seemed so living as those brown lines as
they shot sheer from the height of a ridge down to their still whirl
of the valley. They were swifter than arrows, fiercer than Arabs,
more riotous and rejoicing than rockets. And yet they were only thin
straight lines drawn with difficulty, like a diagram, by painful and
patient men. The men that plowed tried to plow straight; they had no
notion of giving great sweeps and swirls to the eye. Those cataracts of
cloven earth; they were done by the grace of God. I had always rejoiced
in them; but I had never found any reason for my joy. There are some
very clever people who cannot enjoy the joy unless they understand it.
There are other and even cleverer people who say that they lose the joy
the moment they do understand it. Thank God I was never clever, and
could always enjoy things when I understood them and when I didn't. I
can enjoy the orthodox Tory, though I could never understand him. I can
also enjoy the orthodox Liberal, though I understand him only too well.

                   *       *       *       *       *

But the splendor of furrowed fields is this: that like all brave
things they are made straight, and therefore they bend. In everything
that bows gracefully there must be an effort at stiffness. Bows are
beautiful when they bend only because they try to remain rigid; and
sword-blades can curl like silver ribbons only because they are certain
to spring straight again. But the same is true of every tough curve
of the tree-trunk, of every strong-backed bend of the bough; there is
hardly any such thing in Nature as a mere droop of weakness. Rigidity
yielding a little, like justice swayed by mercy, is the whole beauty of
the earth. The cosmos is a diagram just bent beautifully out of shape.
Everything tries to be straight; and everything just fortunately fails.

The foil may curve in the lunge; but there is nothing beautiful about
beginning the battle with a crooked foil. So the strict aim, the strong
doctrine, may give a little in the actual fight with facts; but that
is no reason for beginning with a weak doctrine or a twisted aim. Do
not be an opportunist; try to be theoretic at all the opportunities;
fate can be trusted to do all the opportunist part of it. Do not try to
bend, any more than the trees try to bend. Try to grow straight, and
life will bend you.

Alas! I am giving the moral before the fable; and yet I hardly think
that otherwise you could see all that I mean in that enormous vision
of the plowed hills. These great furrowed slopes are the oldest
architecture of man; the oldest astronomy was his guide, the oldest
botany his object. And for geometry, the mere word proves my case.

                   *       *       *       *       *

But when I looked at those torrents of plowed parallels, that great
rush of rigid lines, I seemed to see the whole huge achievement of
democracy. Here was more equality; but equality seen in bulk is more
superb than any supremacy. Equality free and flying, equality rushing
over hill and dale, equality charging the world--that was the meaning
of those military furrows, military in their identity, military in
their energy. They sculptured hill and dale with strong curves merely
because they did not mean to curve at all. They made the strong lines
of landscape with their stiffly driven swords of the soil. It is not
only nonsense, but blasphemy, to say that man has spoilt the country.
Man has created the country; it was his business, as the image of God.
No hill, covered with common scrub or patches of purple heath, could
have been so sublimely hilly as that ridge up to which the ranked
furrows rose like aspiring angels. No valley, confused with needless
cottages and towns, can have been so utterly valleyish as that abyss
into which the down-rushing furrows raged like demons into the swirling
pit.

It is the hard lines of discipline and equality that mark out a
landscape and give it all its mold and meaning. It is just because the
lines of the furrow are ugly and even that the landscape is living and
superb. As I think I have remarked before, the Republic is founded on
the plow.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Explain the figures of speech that occur in the essay.

     2. Why did Mr. Chesterton use so many figures of speech?

     3. How can you account for his poetic language?

     4. What leads him to think the furrows beautiful?

     5. What meaning does the writer find in the plowed field?

     6. Explain in full the last paragraph of the essay.

     7. In what respect is the Republic, “founded on the plow”?

     8. What does the essay show concerning Mr. Chesterton's
        personality?

     9. In what respects is his style original?

    10. By what means does he gain emphasis?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Take for your subject anything that is extremely familiar. Show
your reader both the physical beauty that any one may observe and
also the inner beauty that the average person is not so likely to
note. Write in such a way that you will show your real emotions
towards your subject. Make your essay rise steadily in power
and let your last paragraph present the thought that you wish to
leave with your reader.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[5] From “Alarms and Discursions,” by Gilbert K. Chesterton. Copyright,
1911, by Dodd, Mead and Company.




                     MEDITATION AND IMAGINATION[6]
                       By HAMILTON WRIGHT MABIE


    _(1846-1916). An American essayist and journalist, for many years
    editor of The Outlook. His literary work was so important that he
    was made a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
    Among his books are_ Nature in New England; My Study Fire; Short
    Studies in Literature; Essays on Books and Culture; The Life of the
    Spirit; Japan To-day and To-morrow.

  =Essayists are natural lovers of books. In the records of human
  experience they find subjects that stimulate the imagination,
  arouse the sentiments, and lead to meditation.=

  =Almost every essayist draws largely, for the better illustration of
  his thought, from the field of literature. To him the characters
  of history or of fiction are almost as real as those of to-day. In
  the realm of books the essayist sees an expansion of the world in
  which he lives. In addition, he makes the acquaintance of others
  who have meditated on the many interests of life. He looks upon
  authors, living or dead, as upon a company of friends. In their
  companionship he gains unceasing delight.=

  =Mr. Hamilton Wright Mabie sets forward very pleasingly the way in
  which a reader may gain the most from books.=


There is a book in the British Museum which would have, for many
people, a greater value than any other single volume in the world;
it is a copy of Florio's translation of Montaigne,[7] and it bears
Shakespeare's autograph on a flyleaf. There are other books which
must have had the same ownership; among them were Holinshed's
“Chronicles,”[8] and North 's translation of Plutarch.[9] Shakespeare
would have laid posterity under still greater obligations, if that were
possible, if in some autobiographic mood he had told us how he read
these books; for never, surely, were books read with greater insight
and with more complete absorption. Indeed, the fruits of this reading
were so rich and ripe that the books from which their juices came
seem but dry husks and shells in comparison. The reader drained the
writer dry of every particle of suggestiveness, and then recreated the
material in new and imperishable forms. The process of reproduction was
individual, and is not to be shared by others; it was the expression
of that rare and inexplicable personal energy which we call genius;
but the process of absorption may be shared by all who care to submit
to the discipline which it involves. It is clear that Shakespeare read
in such a way as to possess what he read; he not only remembered it,
but he incorporated it into himself. No other kind of reading could
have brought the East out of its grave, with its rich and languorous
atmosphere steeping the senses in the charm of Cleopatra, or recalled
the massive and powerfully organized life of Rome about the person
of the great Cæsar. Shakespeare read his books with such insight and
imagination that they became part of himself; and so far as this
process is concerned, the reader of to-day can follow in his steps.

The majority of people have not learned this secret; they read for
information or for refreshment; they do not read for enrichment.
Feeding one's nature at all the sources of life, browsing at will
on all the uplands of knowledge and thought, do not bear the fruit
of acquirement only; they put us into personal possession of the
vitality, the truth, and the beauty about us. A man may know the plays
of Shakespeare accurately as regards their order, form, construction,
and language, and yet remain almost without knowledge of what
Shakespeare was at heart, and of his significance in the history of the
human soul. It is this deeper knowledge, however, which is essential
for culture; for culture is such an appropriation of knowledge that it
becomes a part of ourselves. It is no longer something added by the
memory; it is something possessed by the soul. A pedant is formed by
his memory; a man of culture is formed by the habit of meditation, and
by the constant use of the imagination. An alert and curious man goes
through the world taking note of all that passes under his eyes, and
collects a great mass of information, which is in no sense incorporated
into his own mind, but remains a definite territory outside his own
nature, which he has annexed. A man of receptive mind and heart, on
the other hand, meditating on what he sees, and getting at its meaning
by the divining-rod of the imagination, discovers the law behind the
phenomena, the truth behind the fact, the vital force which flows
through all things, and gives them their significance. The first man
gains information; the second gains culture. The pedant pours out an
endless succession of facts with a monotonous uniformity of emphasis,
and exhausts while he instructs; the man of culture gives us a few
facts, luminous in their relation to one another, and freshens and
stimulates by bringing us into contact with ideas and with life.

To get at the heart of books we must live with and in them; we must
make them our constant companions; we must turn them over and over
in thought, slowly penetrating their innermost meaning; and when
we possess their thought we must work it into our own thought. The
reading of a real book ought to be an event in one's history; it ought
to enlarge the vision, deepen the base of conviction, and add to the
reader whatever knowledge, insight, beauty, and power it contains. It
is possible to spend years of study on what may be called the externals
of the “Divine Comedy,” and remain unaffected in nature by this
contact with one of the masterpieces of the spirit of man as well as
of the art of literature. It is also possible to so absorb Dante's[10]
thought and so saturate one's self with the life of the poem as to add
to one's individual capital of thought and experience all that the poet
discerned in that deep heart of his and wrought out of that intense and
tragic experience. But this permanent and personal possession can be
acquired by those alone who brood over the poem and recreate it within
themselves by the play of the imagination upon it. A visitor was shown
into Mr. Lowell's[11] room one evening not many years ago, and found
him barricaded behind rows of open books; they covered the table and
were spread out on the floor in an irregular but magic circle. “Still
studying Dante?” said the intruder into the workshop of as true a man
of culture as we have known on this continent. “Yes,” was the prompt
reply; “always studying Dante.”

A man's intellectual character is determined by what he habitually
thinks about. The mind cannot always be consciously directed to
definite ends; it has hours of relaxation. There are many hours in
the life of the most strenuous and arduous man when the mind goes
its own way and thinks its own thoughts. These times of relaxation,
when the mind follows its own bent, are perhaps the most fruitful and
significant periods in a rich and noble intellectual life. The real
nature, the deeper instincts of the man, come out in these moments, as
essential refinement and genuine breeding are revealed when the man
is off guard and acts and speaks instinctively. It is possible to be
mentally active and intellectually poor and sterile; to drive the mind
along certain courses of work, but to have no deep life of thought
behind these calculated activities. The life of the mind is rich and
fruitful only when thought, released from specific tasks, flies at
once to great themes as its natural objects of interest and love, its
natural sources of refreshment and strength. Under all our definite
activities there runs a stream of meditation; and the character of that
meditation determines our wealth or our poverty, our productiveness or
our sterility.

This instinctive action of the mind, although largely unconscious, is
by no means irresponsible; it may be directed and controlled; it may
be turned, by such control, into a Pactolian stream,[12] enriching
us while we rest and ennobling us while we play. For the mind may be
trained to meditate on great themes instead of giving itself up to idle
reverie; when it is released from work it may concern itself with the
highest things as readily as with those which are insignificant and
paltry. Whoever can command his meditations in the streets, along the
country roads, on the train, in the hours of relaxation, can enrich
himself for all time without effort or fatigue; for it is as easy and
restful to think about great things as about small ones. A certain
lover of books made this discovery years ago, and has turned it to
account with great profit to himself. He thought he discovered in the
faces of certain great writers a meditative quality full of repose and
suggestive of a constant companionship with the highest themes. It
seemed to him that these thinkers, who had done so much to liberate
his own thought, must have dwelt habitually with noble ideas; that in
every leisure hour they must have turned instinctively to those deep
things which concern most closely the life of men. The vast majority
of men are so absorbed in dealing with material that they appear to be
untouched by the general questions of life; but these general questions
are the habitual concern of the men who think. In such men the mind,
released from specific tasks, turns at once and by preference to these
great themes, and by quiet meditation feeds and enriches the very
soul of the thinker. And the quality of this meditation determines
whether the nature shall be productive or sterile; whether a man shall
be merely a logician, or a creative force in the world. Following
this hint, this lover of books persistently trained himself, in his
leisure hours, to think over the books he was reading; to meditate
on particular passages, and, in the case of dramas and novels, to
look at characters from different sides. It was not easy at first,
and it was distinctively work; but it became instinctive at last, and
consequently it became play. The stream of thought, once set in a given
direction, flows now of its own gravitation; and reverie, instead
of being idle and meaningless, has become rich and fruitful. If one
subjects “The Tempest,”[13] for instance, to this process, he soon
learns it by heart; first he feels its beauty; then he gets whatever
definite information there is in it; as he reflects, its constructive
unity grows clear to him, and he sees its quality as a piece of art;
and finally its rich and noble disclosure of the poet's conception of
life grows upon him until the play belongs to him almost as much as it
belonged to Shakespeare. This process of meditation habitually brought
to bear on one's reading lays bare the very heart of the book in hand,
and puts one in complete possession of it.

This process of meditation, if it is to bear its richest fruit, must
be accompanied by a constant play of the imagination, than which there
is no faculty more readily cultivated or more constantly neglected.
Some readers see only a flat surface as they read; others find the
book a door into a real world, and forget that they are dealing with
a book. The real readers get beyond the book, into the life which it
describes. They see the island in “The Tempest”; they hear the tumult
of the storm; they mingle with the little company who, on that magical
stage, reflect all the passions of men and are brought under the spell
of the highest powers of man's spirit. It is a significant fact that in
the lives of men of genius the reading of two or three books has often
provoked an immediate and striking expansion of thought and power.
Samuel Johnson,[14] a clumsy boy in his father's book-shop, searching
for apples, came upon Petrarch,[15] and was destined henceforth to be
a man of letters. John Keats,[16] apprenticed to an apothecary, read
Spenser's “Epithalamium”[17] one golden afternoon in company with his
friend, Cowden Clarke,[18] and from that hour was a poet by the grace
of God. In both cases the readers read with the imagination, or their
own natures would not have kindled with so sudden a flash. The torch
is passed on to those only whose hands are outstretched to receive it.
To read with the imagination, one must take time to let the figures
reform in his own mind; he must see them with great distinctness and
realize them with great definiteness. Benjamin Franklin[19] tells us,
in that “Autobiography” which was one of our earliest and remains one
of our most genuine pieces of writing, that when he discovered his
need of a larger vocabulary he took some of the tales which he found
in an odd volume of the “Spectator”[20] and turned them into verse;
“and after a time, when I had pretty well forgotten the prose, turned
them back again. I also sometimes jumbled my collections of hints into
confusion, and after some weeks endeavoured to reduce them into the
best order before I began to form the full sentences and compleat the
paper.” Such a patient recasting of material for the ends of verbal
exactness and accuracy suggests ways in which the imagination may deal
with characters and scenes in order to stimulate and foster its own
activity. It is well to recall at frequent intervals the story we read
in some dramatist, poet, or novelist, in order that the imagination may
set it before us again in all its rich vitality. It is well also as we
read to insist on seeing the picture as well as the words.

It is as easy to see the bloodless duke before the portrait of “My
Last Duchess,” in Browning's[21] little masterpiece, to take in all the
accessories and carry away with us a vivid and lasting impression, as
it is to follow with the eye the succession of words. In this way we
possess the poem, and make it serve the ends of culture.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What did Shakespeare gain from the reading of books?

     2. What wrong ways of reading does Mr. Mabie point out?

     3. What is the difference between a pedant and a man of culture?

     4. What does Mr. Mabie mean by the expression, “To get at the heart
        of books”?

     5. What should a book do for a reader?

     6. Why does Mr. Mabie tell the anecdote of Mr. Lowell?

     7. Explain the difference between helpful meditation and idle
        reverie.

     8. What characteristics may be gained from great writers?

     9. What does Mr. Mabie mean by saying that one should read
        imaginatively?

    10. What does the essay show concerning the personality of Mr.
        Mabie?





                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

You have noticed that Mr. Mabie began his essay by telling about
Shakespeare's reading. He then set forward the ideal that Shakespeare's
method of reading represents. You must follow the same plan. Begin
your essay by telling of some one person who represents in some way
the ideal of which you write. That very specific example will lead
your reader into the thought that you wish to emphasize,--that there
is, in connection with your subject, an ideal method of proceeding,
and a method that is less ideal. After you have made this specific
introduction, set forward your own ideas. Do as Mr. Mabie did, and give
many specific examples that will make your thought clear and emphatic.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[6] From “Books and Culture” by Hamilton Wright Mabie. Copyright by
Dodd, Mead and Co.

[7] Florio's Montaigne. John Florio (1553-1625). A teacher of French
and Italian in Oxford University, who in 1603 translated the essays of
Montaigne, one copy of which, autographed by Shakespeare, is in the
British Museum in London. From him Shakespeare perhaps learned French
and Italian. In all probability many of the passages of wit and wisdom
in plays like _Hamlet_ and _The Tempest_, as well as in other plays,
were suggested by Florio's translation of Montaigne.

[8] Holinshed's _Chronicles_. Ralph Holinshed (?-1580?). Author of
_Chronicles of Englande, Scotlande, and Irelande_, a book published in
1577, from which Shakespeare drew material for many of his historical
plays.

[9] North's Plutarch. Sir Thomas North (1535?-1601?), translated from
the French Plutarch's _Lives_, originally written in Greek in the first
century A.D. From these remarkable biographies Shakespeare learned the
stories that he embodied in such plays as _Antony and Cleopatra_ and
_Coriolanus_.

[10] Dante Alighieri (1265-1321), an Italian poet, author of _The
Divine Comedy_, a work of such surpassing merit that its author is
regarded as one of the five greatest writers of all time.

[11] James Russell Lowell (1819-1891). An American poet and essayist,
noted for his love of books.

[12] Pactolian Stream, a river in Asia Minor in which gold was found.

[13] The Tempest, one of Shakespeare's most poetic comedies, written
about 1611.

[14] Samuel Johnson (1709-1784), the great literary leader of the
eighteenth century, noted for his work as an essayist.

[15] Francesco Petrarch (1304-1374), one of the most noted Italian
poets.

[16] John Keats (1795-1821), an English poet especially noted for the
rich beauty of his style.

[17] Edmund Spenser (1552?-1599), the celebrated author of _The Faërie
Queen_ and of other poems noted for rich imaginative power. His
_Epithalamium_, perhaps his best poem, was written in honor of his
marriage to Elizabeth Boyle.

[18] Cowden Clarke (1787-1877), an English publisher and Shakespearian
scholar, a friend of John Keats.

[19] Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790), a great American philosopher and
patriot whose life story is told in his _Autobiography_.

[20] The Spectator, a daily paper published by Joseph Addison, Sir
Richard Steele and others from March 1, 1711, to December 6, 1712.

[21] Robert Browning (1812-1889). One of the greatest of English poets.
_My Last Duchess_ is one of his many powerful dramatic monologues.




                      WHO OWNS THE MOUNTAINS?[22]
                           By HENRY VAN DYKE


    _(1852--). One of the most popular American essayists. After many
    years of service as a Presbyterian minister he became Professor
    of English Literature in Princeton University. During the early
    part of the World War he was U. S. Minister to the Netherlands
    and Luxembourg, where his services were notably patriotic. His
    poems, essays and short stories have won wide and well-deserved
    popularity. Among them are_ The Poetry of Tennyson; The Other Wise
    Man; The First Christmas Tree; Fisherman's Luck; The Blue Flower;
    Out of Doors in the Holy Land; The Unknown Quantity; Collected
    Poems. _Dr. Van Dyke was at one time President of the National
    Institute of Arts and Letters._

  =Something of the spirit of sunset and of the quietness of the woods
  and mountains has crept into Dr. Van Dyke's essay. We sit with him
  and look off at the ridges and hollows of forest. We find our own
  thoughts about the beauty of earth expressed as we can not express
  them. We are lifted in meditation as Dr. Van Dyke was lifted when
  he looked off at the great hills.=

  =Power to reveal inner meanings in the world of outdoors and of man,
  and to ennoble the soul, is one of the reasons why the essay has
  such a high place in the affections of those who love literature.=

  =_Who Owns the Mountains?_ shows both the felicity of Dr. Van Dyke's
  style and the nobility of his thought.=


It was the little lad that asked the question; and the answer also, as
you will see, was mainly his.

We had been keeping Sunday afternoon together in our favorite
fashion, following out that pleasant text which tells us to “behold
the fowls of the air.” There is no injunction of Holy Writ less
burdensome in acceptance, or more profitable in obedience, than this
easy out-of-doors commandment. For several hours we walked in the
way of this precept, through the untangled woods that lie behind
the Forest Hills Lodge,[23] where a pair of pigeon-hawks had their
nest; and around the brambly shores of the small pond, where Maryland
yellow-throats and song-sparrows were settled; and under the lofty
hemlocks of the fragment of forest across the road, where rare warblers
flitted silently among the tree-tops. The light beneath the evergreens
was growing dim as we came out from their shadow into the widespread
glow of the sunset, on the edge of a grassy hill, overlooking the long
valley of the Gale River, and uplooking to the Franconia Mountains.

It was the benediction hour. The placid air of the day shed a new
tranquillity over the consoling landscape. The heart of the earth
seemed to taste a repose more perfect than that of common days. A
hermit-thrush, far up the vale, sang his vesper hymn; while the
swallows, seeking their evening meal, circled above the riverfields
without an effort, twittering softly, now and then, as if they must
give thanks. Slight and indefinable touches in the scene, perhaps
the mere absence of the tiny human figures passing along the road or
laboring in the distant meadows, perhaps the blue curls of smoke rising
lazily from the farm-house chimneys, or the family groups sitting under
the maple-trees before the door, diffused a sabbath atmosphere over the
world.

Then said the lad, lying on the grass beside me, “Father, who owns the
mountains?”

I happened to have heard, the day before, of two or three lumber
companies that had bought some of the woodland slopes; so I told him
their names, adding that there were probably a good many different
owners, whose claims taken all together would cover the whole Franconia
range of hills.

“Well,” answered the lad, after a moment of silence, “I don't see what
difference that makes. Everybody can look at them.”

They lay stretched out before us in the level sunlight, the sharp peaks
outlined against the sky, the vast ridges of forest sinking smoothly
towards the valleys, the deep hollows gathering purple shadows
in their bosoms, and the little foothills standing out in rounded
promontories of brighter green from the darker mass behind them.

Far to the east, the long comb of Twin Mountain extended itself back
into the untrodden wilderness. Mount Garfield lifted a clear-cut
pyramid through the translucent air. The huge bulk of Lafayette
ascended majestically in front of us, crowned with a rosy diadem of
rocks. Eagle Cliff and Bald Mountain stretched their line of scalloped
peaks across the entrance to the Notch. Beyond that shadowy vale, the
swelling summits of Cannon Mountain rolled away to meet the tumbling
waves of Kinsman, dominated by one loftier crested billow that seemed
almost ready to curl and break out of green silence into snowy foam.
Far down the sleeping Landaff valley the undulating dome of Moosilauke
trembled in the distant blue.

They were all ours, from crested cliff to wooded base. The solemn
groves of firs and spruces, the plumed sierras of lofty pines, the
stately pillared forests of birch and beech, the wild ravines, the
tremulous thickets of silvery poplar, the bare peaks with their wide
outlooks, and the cool vales resounding with the ceaseless song of
little rivers,--we knew and loved them all; they ministered peace and
joy to us; they were all ours, though we held no title deeds and our
ownership had never been recorded.

What is property, after all? The law says there are two kinds, real and
personal. But it seems to me that the only real property is that which
is truly personal, that which we take into our inner life and make our
own forever by understanding and admiration and sympathy and love. This
is the only kind of possession that is worth anything.

A gallery of great paintings adorns the house of the Honorable Midas
Bond,[24] and every year adds a new treasure to his collection. He
knows how much they cost him, and he keeps the run of the quotations
at the auction sales, congratulating himself as the price of the
works of his well-chosen artists rises in the scale, and the value of
his art treasures is enhanced. But why should he call them his? He
is only their custodian. He keeps them well varnished, and framed in
gilt. But he never passes through those gilded frames into the world
of beauty that lies behind the painted canvas. He knows nothing of
those lovely places from which the artist's soul and hand have drawn
their inspiration. They are closed and barred to him. He has bought
the pictures, but he cannot buy the key. The poor art student who
wanders through his gallery, lingering with awe and love before the
masterpieces, owns them far more truly than Midas does.

Pomposus Silverman[25] purchased a rich library a few years ago. The
books were rare and costly. That was the reason why Pomposus bought
them. He was proud to feel that he was the possessor of literary
treasures which were not to be found in the houses of his wealthiest
acquaintances. But the threadbare Bücherfreund,[26] who was engaged at
a slender salary to catalogue the library and take care of it, became
the real proprietor. Pomposus paid for the books, but Bücherfreund
enjoyed them.

I do not mean to say that the possession of much money is always a
barrier to real wealth of mind and heart. Nor would I maintain that
all the poor of this world are rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom.
But some of them are. And if some of the rich of this world (through
the grace of Him with whom all things are possible) are also modest in
their tastes, and gentle in their hearts, and open in their minds, and
ready to be pleased with unbought pleasures, they simply share in the
best things which are provided for all.

I speak not now of the strife that men wage over the definition and the
laws of property. Doubtless there is much here that needs to be set
right. There are men and women in the world who are shut out from the
right to earn a living, so poor that they must perish for want of daily
bread, so full of misery that there is no room for the tiniest seed
of joy in their lives. This is the lingering shame of civilization.
Some day, perhaps, we shall find the way to banish it. Some day, every
man shall have his title to a share in the world's great work and the
world's large joy.

But meantime it is certain that, where there are a hundred poor bodies
who suffer from physical privation, there are a thousand poor souls who
suffer from spiritual poverty. To relieve this greater suffering there
needs no change of laws, only a change of heart.

What does it profit a man to be the landed proprietor of countless
acres unless he can reap the harvest of delight that blooms from every
rood of God's earth for the seeing eye and the loving spirit? And who
can reap that harvest so closely that there shall not be abundant
gleaning left for all mankind? The most that a wide principality can
yield to its legal owner is a living. But the real owner can gather
from a field of goldenrod, shining in the August sunlight, an unearned
increment of delight.

We measure success by accumulation. The measure is false. The true
measure is appreciation. He who loves most has most.

How foolishly we train ourselves for the work of life! We give our most
arduous and eager efforts to the cultivation of those faculties which
will serve us in the competitions of the forum and the market-place.
But if we were wise, we should care infinitely more for the unfolding
of those inward, secret, spiritual powers by which alone we can
become the owners of anything that is worth having. Surely God is the
great proprietor. Yet all His works He has given away. He holds no
title-deeds. The one thing that is His, is the perfect understanding,
the perfect joy, the perfect love, of all things that He has made. To
a share in this high ownership He welcomes all who are poor in spirit.
This is the earth which the meek inherit. This is the patrimony of the
saints in light.

“Come, laddie,” I said to my comrade, “let us go home. You and I are
very rich. We own the mountains. But we can never sell them, and we
don't want to.”


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. In what does real ownership consist?

     2. Why is it wrong to “measure success by accumulation”?

     3. What is “spiritual poverty”?

     4. How may you truly own a book?

     5. How may you truly own a beautiful scene?

     6. How may you become a really rich person?

     7. How may you truly own a beautiful picture?

     8. How does Dr. Van Dyke introduce his principal thought?

     9. What is the spirit of the essay?

    10. Make a list of the most beautiful sentences.



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Show, in your essay, that all people have at their command some
wealth, or some wonderful power, that they little suspect. Show
how they may make use of the opportunity that lies before them.
In order to do this, lead into your thought as naturally as Dr. Van
Dyke leads into his. You will write more wisely and more sincerely
if you set your thoughts in motion from some real experience,--from
some time when you were genuinely impressed and uplifted in
spirit.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[22] From “Fisherman's Luck,” by Henry Van Dyke. Copyright, 1905, by
Charles Scribner's Sons.

[23] The scene mentioned in the essay is in the White Mountain region
in New Hampshire, one of the most beautiful regions in the United
States.

[24] Midas Bond. Greek legend tells of Midas, king of Phrygia, who had
the power of turning into gold everything that he touched. “Bond” is of
course, a modern synonym for wealth.

[25] Pomposus Silverman. Another combination of a classical and a
modern expression,--a haughty lord of silver.

[26] Bücherfreund. Lover of books.


                             RUNNING WOLF
                         By ALGERNON BLACKWOOD

    _(1869--). An English author and journalist. He is a graduate of
    the University of Edinburgh. For a time he was on the staff of
    the_ New York Sun, _and of the_ New York Times. _He is the author
    of_ The Lost Valley; Paris Garden; A Prisoner in Fairyland; The
    Starlight Express. _He writes with strongly suggestive power._

  =The legend and its origin and development, are well illustrated in
  the story of _Running Wolf_. Some hundred years before the story
  begins, so the author says, certain tragic events had occurred in
  the Canadian backwoods. From those events had grown beliefs held by
  all who lived within the region. The author very cleverly makes his
  story a continuation of the legend.=

  =_Running Wolf_ deals not only with the beliefs of a primitive
  people but also with the supernatural. It suggests an unhappy,
  wandering spirit unable to escape from the chains of earth. In its
  treatment of the supernatural the story is surpassingly powerful.
  It gains every effect through the power of suggestion. At no time
  does the story, in so many words, say that the supernatural is
  present. Instead, it places the reader in a position where it is
  natural to infer something beyond the ordinary. In other words, the
  story does what life does: it presents facts and leaves people to
  draw their own conclusions.=

  =Over the entire story hangs an atmosphere entirely in keeping with
  the events narrated. The reader feels drawn into the solemn silence
  of the vast forest; he knows the loneliness of little-visited
  lakes, and the black terror that surrounds a wilderness camp-fire
  at night.=

  =The story is rich with foreshadowing, sentence after sentence
  pointing toward the climax and emphasizing the single effect that
  is produced.=

  =Because of its hauntingly suggestive power _Running Wolf_ is a
  remarkable story of the supernatural.=

  =“Loneliness in a backwoods camp brings charm, pleasure, and a
  happy sense of calm until, and unless, it comes too near. Once it
  has crept within short distance, however, it may easily cross the
  narrow line between comfort and discomfort.”=


The man who enjoys an adventure outside the general experience of the
race, and imparts it to others, must not be surprised if he is taken
for either a liar or a fool, as Malcolm Hyde, hotel clerk on a holiday,
discovered in due course. Nor is “enjoy” the right word to use in
describing his emotions; the word he chose was probably “survive.”

When he first set eyes on Medicine Lake he was struck by its still,
sparkling beauty, lying there in the vast Canadian backwoods; next, by
its extreme loneliness; and, lastly--a good deal later, this--by its
combination of beauty, loneliness, and singular atmosphere, due to the
fact that it was the scene of his adventure.

“It 's fairly stiff with big fish,” said Morton of the Montreal
Sporting Club. “Spend your holiday there--up Mattawa way, some fifteen
miles west of Stony Creek. You'll have it all to yourself except for
an old Indian who's got a shack there. Camp on the east side--if
you'll take a tip from me.” He then talked for half an hour about the
wonderful sport; yet he was not otherwise very communicative, and did
not suffer questions gladly, Hyde noticed. Nor had he stayed there very
long himself. If it was such a paradise as Morton, its discoverer and
the most experienced rod in the province, claimed, why had he himself
spent only three days there?

“Ran short of grub,” was the explanation offered; but to another
friend he had mentioned briefly, “flies,” and to a third, so Hyde
learned later, he gave the excuse that his half-breed “took sick,”
necessitating a quick return to civilization.

Hyde, however, cared little for the explanations; his interest in these
came later. “Stiff with fish” was the phrase he liked. He took the
Canadian Pacific train to Mattawa, laid in his outfit at Stony Creek,
and set off thence for the fifteen-mile canoe-trip without a care in
the world.

Traveling light, the portages did not trouble him; the water was swift
and easy, the rapids negotiable; everything came his way, as the saying
is. Occasionally he saw big fish making for the deeper pools, and was
sorely tempted to stop; but he resisted. He pushed on between the
immense world of forests that stretched for hundreds of miles, known to
deer, bear, moose, and wolf, but strange to any echo of human tread,
a deserted and primeval wilderness. The autumn day was calm, the water
sang and sparkled, the blue sky hung cloudless over all, ablaze with
light. Toward evening he passed an old beaver-dam, rounded a little
point, and had his first sight of Medicine Lake. He lifted his dripping
paddle; the canoe shot with silent glide into calm water. He gave an
exclamation of delight, for the loveliness caught his breath away.

Though primarily a sportsman, he was not insensible to beauty. The
lake formed a crescent, perhaps four miles long, its width between a
mile and half a mile. The slanting gold of sunset flooded it. No wind
stirred its crystal surface. Here it had lain since the red-skin's god
first made it; here it would lie until he dried it up again. Towering
spruce and hemlock trooped to its very edge, majestic cedars leaned
down as if to drink, crimson sumachs shone in fiery patches, and maples
gleamed orange and red beyond belief. The air was like wine, with the
silence of a dream.

It was here the red men formerly “made medicine,” with all the wild
ritual and tribal ceremony of an ancient day. But it was of Morton,
rather than of Indians, that Hyde thought. If this lonely, hidden
paradise was really stiff with big fish, he owed a lot to Morton for
the information. Peace invaded him, but the excitement of the hunter
lay below.

He looked about him with quick, practised eye for a camping-place
before the sun sank below the forests and the half-lights came. The
Indian's shack, lying in full sunshine on the eastern shore, he found
at once; but the trees lay too thick about it for comfort, nor did he
wish to be so close to its inhabitant. Upon the opposite side, however,
an ideal clearing offered. This lay already in shadow, the huge forest
darkening it toward evening; but the open space attracted. He paddled
over quickly and examined it. The ground was hard and dry, he found,
and a little brook ran tinkling down one side of it into the lake. This
outfall, too, would be a good fishing spot. Also it was sheltered. A
few low willows marked the mouth.

An experienced camper soon makes up his mind. It was a perfect site,
and some charred logs, with traces of former fires, proved that he
was not the first to think so. Hyde was delighted. Then, suddenly,
disappointment came to tinge his pleasure. His kit was landed, and
preparations for putting up the tent were begun, when he recalled
a detail that excitement had so far kept in the background of his
mind--Morton's advice. But not Morton's only, for the storekeeper at
Stony Creek had reinforced it. The big fellow with straggling mustache
and stooping shoulders, dressed in shirt and trousers, had handed him
out a final sentence with the bacon, flour, condensed milk, and sugar.
He had repeated Morton's half-forgotten words:

“Put yer tent on the east shore. I should,” he had said at parting.

He remembered Morton, too, apparently. “A shortish fellow, brown as
an Indian and fairly smelling of the woods. Traveling with Jake, the
half-breed.” That assuredly was Morton. “Didn't stay long, now, did
he?” he added in a reflective tone.

“Going Windy Lake way, are yer? Or Ten Mile Water, maybe?” he had first
inquired of Hyde.

“Medicine Lake.”

“Is that so?” the man said, as though he doubted it for some obscure
reason. He pulled at his ragged mustache a moment. “Is that so, now?”
he repeated. And the final words followed him down-stream after a
considerable pause--the advice about the best shore on which to put his
tent.

All this now suddenly flashed back upon Hyde's mind with a tinge of
disappointment and annoyance, for when two experienced men agreed,
their opinion was not to be lightly disregarded. He wished he had asked
the storekeeper for more details. He looked about him, he reflected,
he hesitated. His ideal camping-ground lay certainly on the forbidden
shore. What in the world, he wondered, could be the objection to it?

But the light was fading; he must decide quickly one way or the other.
After staring at his unpacked dunnage and the tent, already half
erected, he made up his mind with a muttered expression that consigned
both Morton and the storekeeper to less pleasant places. “They must
have some reason,” he growled to himself; “fellows like that usually
know what they're talking about. I guess I'd better shift over to the
other side--for to-night, at any rate.”

He glanced across the water before actually reloading. No smoke rose
from the Indian's shack. He had seen no sign of a canoe. The man, he
decided, was away. Reluctantly, then, he left the good camping-ground
and paddled across the lake, and half an hour later his tent was up,
firewood collected, and two small trout were already caught for supper.
But the bigger fish, he knew, lay waiting for him on the other side by
the little outfall, and he fell asleep at length on his bed of balsam
boughs, annoyed and disappointed, yet wondering how a mere sentence
could have persuaded him so easily against his own better judgment. He
slept like the dead; the sun was well up before he stirred.

But his morning mood was a very different one. The brilliant light,
the peace, the intoxicating air, all this was too exhilarating for the
mind to harbor foolish fancies, and he marveled that he could have
been so weak the night before. No hesitation lay in him anywhere. He
struck camp immediately after breakfast, paddled back across the strip
of shining water, and quickly settled in upon the forbidden shore, as
he now called it, with a contemptuous grin. And the more he saw of the
spot, the better he liked it. There was plenty of wood, running water
to drink, an open space about the tent, and there were no flies. The
fishing, moreover, was magnificent; Morton's description was fully
justified, and “stiff with big fish” for once was not an exaggeration.

The useless hours of the early afternoon he passed dozing in the sun,
or wandering through the underbrush beyond the camp. He found no sign
of anything unusual. He bathed in a cool, deep pool; he reveled in the
lonely little paradise. Lonely it certainly was, but the loneliness was
part of its charm; the stillness, the peace, the isolation of this
beautiful backwoods lake delighted him. The silence was divine. He was
entirely satisfied.

After a brew of tea, he strolled toward evening along the shore,
looking for the first sign of a rising fish. A faint ripple on the
water, with the lengthening shadows, made good conditions. _Plop_
followed _plop_, as the big fellows rose, snatched at their food, and
vanished into the depths. He hurried back. Ten minutes later he had
taken his rods and was gliding cautiously in the canoe through the
quiet water.

So good was the sport, indeed, and so quickly did the big trout pile up
in the bottom of the canoe that, despite the growing lateness, he found
it hard to tear himself away. “One more,” he said, “and then I really
will go.” He landed that “one more,” and was in the act of taking
it off the hook, when the deep silence of the evening was curiously
disturbed. He became abruptly aware that some one watched him. A
pair of eyes, it seemed, were fixed upon him from some point in the
surrounding shadows.

Thus, at least, he interpreted the odd disturbance in his happy mood;
for thus he felt it. The feeling stole over him without the slightest
warning. He was not alone. The slippery big trout dripped from his
fingers. He sat motionless, and stared about him.

Nothing stirred; the ripple on the lake had died away; there was no
wind; the forest lay a single purple mass of shadow; the yellow sky,
fast fading, threw reflections that troubled the eye and made distances
uncertain. But there was no sound, no movement; he saw no figure
anywhere. Yet he knew that some one watched him, and a wave of quite
unreasoning terror gripped him. The nose of the canoe was against the
bank. In a moment, and instinctively, he shoved it off and paddled into
deeper water. The watcher, it came to him also instinctively, was quite
close to him upon that bank. But where? And who? Was it the Indian?

Here, in deeper water, and some twenty yards from the shore, he paused
and strained both sight and hearing to find some possible clue. He felt
half ashamed, now that the first strange feeling passed a little. But

   [Illustration: =“The feeling stole over him without the slightest
               warning. He was not alone.”=]               (_page 60_)

the certainty remained. Absurd as it was, he felt positive that some
one watched him with concentrated and intent regard. Every fiber in
his being told him so; and though he could discover no figure, no new
outline on the shore, he could even have sworn in which clump of willow
bushes the hidden person crouched and stared. His attention seemed
drawn to that particular clump.

The water dripped slowly from his paddle, now lying across the thwarts.
There was no other sound. The canvas of his tent gleamed dimly. A star
or two were out. He waited. Nothing happened.

Then, as suddenly as it had come, the feeling passed, and he knew that
the person who had been watching him intently had gone. It was as
if a current had been turned off; the normal world flowed back; the
landscape emptied as if some one had left a room. The disagreeable
feeling left him at the same time, so that he instantly turned the
canoe in to the shore again, landed, and, paddle in hand, went over
to examine the clump of willows he had singled out as the place of
concealment. There was no one there, of course, or any trace of recent
human occupancy. No leaves, no branches stirred, nor was a single twig
displaced; his keen and practised sight detected no sign of tracks upon
the ground. Yet, for all that, he felt positive that a little time
ago some one had crouched among these very leaves and watched him.
He remained absolutely convinced of it. The watcher, whether Indian,
hunter, stray lumberman, or wandering half-breed, had now withdrawn,
a search was useless, and dusk was falling. He returned to his little
camp, more disturbed perhaps than he cared to acknowledge. He cooked
his supper, hung up his catch on a string, so that no prowling animal
could get at it during the night, and prepared to make himself
comfortable until bed-time. Unconsciously, he built a bigger fire than
usual, and found himself peering over his pipe into the deep shadows
beyond the firelight, straining his ears to catch the slightest sound.
He remained generally on the alert in a way that was new to him.

A man under such conditions and in such a place need not know
discomfort until the sense of loneliness strikes him as too vivid a
reality. Loneliness in a backwoods camp brings charm, pleasure, and a
happy sense of calm until, and unless, it comes too near. It should
remain an ingredient only among other conditions; it should not be
directly, vividly noticed. Once it has crept within short range,
however, it may easily cross the narrow line between comfort and
discomfort, and darkness is an undesirable time for the transition. A
curious dread may easily follow--the dread lest the loneliness suddenly
be disturbed, and the solitary human feel himself open to attack.

For Hyde, now, this transition had been already accomplished; the too
intimate sense of his loneliness had shifted abruptly into the worse
condition of no longer being quite alone. It was an awkward moment, and
the hotel clerk realized his position exactly. He did not quite like
it. He sat there, with his back to the blazing logs, a very visible
object in the light, while all about him the darkness of the forest lay
like an impenetrable wall. He could not see a foot beyond the small
circle of his camp-fire; the silence about him was like the silence of
the dead. No leaf rustled, no wave lapped; he himself sat motionless as
a log.

Then again he became suddenly aware that the person who watched him
had returned, and that same intent and concentrated gaze as before was
fixed upon him where he lay. There was no warning; he heard no stealthy
tread or snapping of dry twigs, yet the owner of those steady eyes
was very close to him, probably not a dozen feet away. This sense of
proximity was overwhelming.

It is unquestionable that a shiver ran down his spine. This time,
moreover, he felt positive that the man crouched just beyond the
firelight, the distance he himself could see being nicely calculated,
and straight in front of him. For some minutes he sat without stirring
a single muscle, yet with each muscle ready and alert, straining his
eyes in vain to pierce the darkness, but only succeeding in dazzling
his sight with the reflected light. Then, as he shifted his position
slowly, cautiously, to obtain another angle of vision, his heart gave
two big thumps against his ribs and the hair seemed to rise on his
scalp with the sense of cold that shot horribly up his spine. In the
darkness facing him he saw two small and greenish circles that were
certainly a pair of eyes, yet not the eyes of Indian, hunter, or of any
human being. It was a pair of animal eyes that stared so fixedly at
him out of the night. And this certainty had an immediate and natural
effect upon him.

For, at the menace of those eyes, the fears of millions of long dead
hunters since the dawn of time woke in him. Hotel clerk though he was,
heredity surged through him in an automatic wave of instinct. His hand
groped for a weapon. His fingers fell on the iron head of his small
camp ax, and at once he was himself again. Confidence returned; the
vague, superstitious dread was gone. This was a bear or wolf that
smelt his catch and came to steal it. With beings of that sort he knew
instinctively how to deal, yet admitting, by this very instinct, that
his original dread had been of quite another kind.

“I'll damned quick find out what it is,” he exclaimed aloud, and
snatching a burning brand from the fire, he hurled it with good aim
straight at the eyes of the beast before him.

The bit of pitch-pine fell in a shower of sparks that lit the dry grass
this side of the animal, flared up a moment, then died quickly down
again. But in that instant of bright illumination he saw clearly what
his unwelcome visitor was. A big timber wolf sat on its hindquarters,
staring steadily at him through the firelight. He saw its legs and
shoulders, he saw its hair, he saw also the big hemlock trunks lit
up behind it, and the willow scrub on each side. It formed a vivid,
clear-cut picture shown in clear detail by the momentary blaze. To
his amazement, however, the wolf did not turn and bolt away from the
burning log, but withdrew a few yards only, and sat there again on
its haunches, staring, staring as before. Heavens, how it stared! He
“shoed” it, but without effect; it did not budge. He did not waste
another good log on it, for his fear was dissipated now, and a timber
wolf was a timber wolf, and it might sit there as long as it pleased,
provided it did not try to steal his catch. No alarm was in him any
more. He knew that wolves were harmless in the summer and autumn, and
even when “packed” in the winter, they would attack a man only when
suffering desperate hunger. So he lay and watched the beast, threw bits
of stick in its direction, even talked to it, wondering only that it
never moved. “You can stay there forever, if you like,” he remarked to
it aloud, “for you cannot get at my fish, and the rest of the grub I
shall take into the tent with me.”

The creature blinked its bright green eyes, but made no move.

Why, then, if his fear was gone, did he think of certain things as he
rolled himself in the Hudson Bay blankets before going to sleep? The
immobility of the animal was strange, its refusal to turn and bolt was
still stranger. Never before had he known a wild creature that was not
afraid of fire. Why did it sit and watch him, as with purpose in its
dreadful eyes? How had he felt its presence earlier and instantly? A
timber wolf, especially a solitary timber wolf, was a timid thing, yet
this one feared neither man nor fire. Now as he lay there wrapped in
his blankets inside the cozy tent, it sat outside beneath the stars,
beside the fading embers, the wind chilly in its fur, the ground
cooling beneath its planted paws, watching him, steadily watching him,
perhaps until the dawn.

It was unusual, it was strange. Having neither imagination nor
tradition, he called upon no store of racial visions. Matter of fact, a
hotel clerk on a fishing holiday, he lay there in his blankets, merely
wondering and puzzled. A timber wolf was a timber wolf and nothing
more. Yet this timber wolf--the idea haunted him--was different. In a
word, the deeper part of his original uneasiness remained. He tossed
about, he shivered sometimes in his broken sleep, he did not go out to
see, but he woke early and unrefreshed.

Again, with the sunshine and the morning wind, however, the incident of
the night before was forgotten, almost unreal. His hunting zeal was
uppermost. The tea and fish were delicious, his pipe had never tasted
so good, the glory of this lonely lake amid primeval forests went to
his head a little; he was a hunter before the Lord,[27] and nothing
else. He tried the edge of the lake, and in the excitement of playing
a big fish, knew suddenly that _it_, the wolf, was there. He paused
with the rod, exactly as if struck. He looked about him, he looked in a
definite direction. The brilliant sunshine made every smallest detail
clear and sharp--boulders of granite, burned stems, crimson sumach,
pebbles along the shore in neat, separate detail--without revealing
where the watcher hid. Then, his sight wandering farther inshore
among the tangled undergrowth, he suddenly picked up the familiar,
half-expected outline. The wolf was lying behind a granite boulder, so
that only the head, the muzzle, and the eyes were visible. It merged
in its background. Had he not known it was a wolf, he could never have
separated it from the landscape. The eyes shone in the sunlight.

There it lay. He looked straight at it. Their eyes, in fact, actually
met full and square. “Great Scot!” he exclaimed aloud, “why, it's
like looking at a human being!” And from that moment, unwittingly,
he established a singular personal relation with the beast. And what
followed confirmed this undesirable impression, for the animal rose
instantly and came down in leisurely fashion to the shore, where it
stood looking back at him. It stood and stared into his eyes like some
great wild dog, so that he was aware of a new and almost incredible
sensation--that it courted recognition.

“Well! well!” he exclaimed again, relieving his feelings by addressing
it aloud, “if this doesn't beat everything I ever saw! What d' you
want, anyway?”

He examined it now more carefully. He had never seen a wolf so big
before; it was a tremendous beast, a nasty customer to tackle, he
reflected, if it ever came to that. It stood there absolutely fearless
and full of confidence. In the clear sunlight he took in every detail
of it--a huge, shaggy, lean-flanked timber wolf, its wicked eyes
staring straight into his own, almost with a kind of purpose in them.
He saw its great jaws, its teeth, and its tongue, hung out, dropping
saliva a little. And yet the idea of its savagery, its fierceness, was
very little in him.

He was amazed and puzzled beyond belief. He wished the Indian would
come back. He did not understand this strange behavior in an animal.
Its eyes, the odd expression in them, gave him a queer, unusual,
difficult feeling. Had his nerves gone wrong? he almost wondered.

The beast stood on the shore and looked at him. He wished for the first
time that he had brought a rifle. With a resounding smack he brought
his paddle down flat upon the water, using all his strength, till the
echoes rang as from a pistol-shot that was audible from one end of the
lake to the other. The wolf never stirred. He shouted, but the beast
remained unmoved. He blinked his eyes, speaking as to a dog, a domestic
animal, a creature accustomed to human ways. It blinked its eyes in
return.

At length, increasing his distance from the shore, he continued
fishing, and the excitement of the marvelous sport held his
attention--his surface attention, at any rate. At times he almost
forgot the attendant beast; yet whenever he looked up, he saw it there.
And worse; when he slowly paddled home again, he observed it trotting
along the shore as though to keep him company. Crossing a little bay,
he spurted, hoping to reach the other point before his undesired and
undesirable attendant. Instantly the brute broke into that rapid,
tireless lope that, except on ice, can run down anything on four legs
in the woods. When he reached the distant point, the wolf was waiting
for him. He raised his paddle from the water, pausing a moment for
reflection; for this very close attention--there were dusk and night
yet to come--he certainly did not relish. His camp was near; he had
to land; he felt uncomfortable even in the sunshine of broad day,
when, to his keen relief, about half a mile from the tent, he saw the
creature suddenly stop and sit down in the open. He waited a moment,
then paddled on. It did not follow. There was no attempt to move; it
merely sat and watched him. After a few hundred yards, he looked back.
It was still sitting where he left it. And the absurd, yet significant,
feeling came to him that the beast divined his thought, his anxiety,
his dread, and was now showing him, as well as it could, that it
entertained no hostile feeling and did not meditate attack.

He turned the canoe toward the shore; he landed; he cooked his supper
in the dusk; the animal made no sign. Not far away it certainly lay
and watched, but it did not advance. And to Hyde, observant now in
a new way, came one sharp, vivid reminder of the strange atmosphere
into which his commonplace personality had strayed: he suddenly
recalled that his relations with the beast, already established, had
progressed distinctly a stage further. This startled him, yet without
the accompanying alarm he must certainly have felt twenty-four hours
before. He had an understanding with the wolf. He was aware of friendly
thoughts toward it. He even went so far as to set out a few big fish on
the spot where he had first seen it sitting the previous night. “If he
comes,” he thought, “he is welcome to them. I've got plenty, anyway.”
He thought of it now as “he.”

Yet the wolf made no appearance until he was in the act of entering
his tent a good deal later. It was close on ten o'clock, whereas nine
was his hour, and late at that, for turning in. He had, therefore,
unconsciously been waiting for him. Then, as he was closing the flap,
he saw the eyes close to where he had placed the fish. He waited,
hiding himself, and expecting to hear sounds of munching jaws; but all
was silence. Only the eyes glowed steadily out of the background of
pitch darkness. He closed the flap. He had no slightest fear. In ten
minutes he was sound asleep.

He could not have slept very long, for when he woke up he could see
the shine of a faint red light through the canvas, and the fire had
not died down completely. He rose and cautiously peeped out. The air
was very cold; he saw his breath. But he also saw the wolf, for it had
come in, and was sitting by the dying embers, not two yards away from
where he crouched behind the flap. And this time, at these very close
quarters, there was something in the attitude of the big wild thing
that caught his attention with a vivid thrill of startled surprise and
a sudden shock of cold that held him spellbound. He stared, unable to
believe his eyes; for the wolf's attitude conveyed to him something
familiar that at first he was unable to explain. Its pose reached him
in the terms of another thing with which he was entirely at home. What
was it? Did his senses betray him? Was he still asleep and dreaming?

Then, suddenly, with a start of uncanny recognition, he knew. Its
attitude was that of a dog. Having found the clue, his mind then made
an awful leap. For it was, after all, no dog its appearance aped, but
something nearer to himself, and more familiar still. Good heavens!
It sat there with the pose, the attitude, the gesture in repose of
something almost human. And then, with a second shock of biting wonder,
it came to him like a revelation. The wolf sat beside that camp-fire as
a man might sit.

Before he could weigh his extraordinary discovery, before he could
examine it in detail or with care, the animal, sitting in this
ghastly fashion, seemed to feel his eyes fixed on it. It slowly
turned and looked him in the face, and for the first time Hyde felt a
full-blooded, superstitious fear flood through his entire being. He
seemed transfixed with that nameless terror that is said to attack
human beings who suddenly face the dead, finding themselves bereft of
speech and movement. This moment of paralysis certainly occurred. Its
passing, however, was as singular as its advent. For almost at once he
was aware of something beyond and above this mockery of human attitude
and pose, something that ran along unaccustomed nerves and reached
his feeling, even perhaps his heart. The revulsion was extraordinary,
its result still more extraordinary and unexpected. Yet the fact
remains. He was aware of another thing that had the effect of stilling
his terror as soon as it was born. He was aware of appeal, silent,
half-expressed, yet vastly pathetic. He saw in the savage eyes a
beseeching, even a yearning, expression that changed his mood as by
magic from dread to natural sympathy. The great gray brute, symbol of
cruel ferocity, sat there beside his dying fire and appealed for help.

This gulf betwixt animal and human seemed in that instant bridged. It
was, of course, incredible. Hyde, sleep still possibly clinging to his
inner being with the shades and half-shapes of dream yet about his
soul, acknowledged, how he knew not, the amazing fact. He found himself
nodding to the brute in half-consent, and instantly, without more ado,
the lean gray shape rose like a wraith and trotted off swiftly, but
with stealthy tread into the background of the night.

When Hyde woke in the morning his first impression was that he must
have dreamed the entire incident. His practical nature asserted itself.
There was a bite in the fresh autumn air; the bright sun allowed no
half-lights anywhere; he felt brisk in mind and body. Reviewing what
had happened, he came to the conclusion that it was utterly vain to
speculate; no possible explanation of the animal's behavior occurred to
him: he was dealing with something entirely outside his experience. His
fear, however, had completely left him. The odd sense of friendliness
remained. The beast had a definite purpose, and he himself was included
in that purpose. His sympathy held good.

But with the sympathy there was also an intense curiosity. “If it shows
itself again,” he told himself, “I'll go up close and find out what it
wants.” The fish laid out the night before had not been touched.

It must have been a full hour after breakfast when he next saw the
brute; it was standing on the edge of the clearing, looking at him
in the way now become familiar. Hyde immediately picked up his ax
and advanced toward it boldly, keeping his eyes fixed straight upon
its own. There was nervousness in him, but kept well under; nothing
betrayed it; step by step he drew nearer until some ten yards separated
them. The wolf had not stirred a muscle as yet. Its jaws hung open, its
eyes observed him intently; it allowed him to approach without a sign
of what its mood might be. Then, with these ten yards between them,
it turned abruptly and moved slowly off, looking back first over one
shoulder and then over the other, exactly as a dog might do, to see if
he was following.

A singular journey it was they then made together, animal and man. The
trees surrounded them at once, for they left the lake behind them,
entering the tangled bush beyond. The beast, Hyde noticed, obviously
picked the easiest track for him to follow; for obstacles that meant
nothing to the four-legged expert, yet were difficult for a man, were
carefully avoided with an almost uncanny skill, while yet the general
direction was accurately kept. Occasionally there were windfalls to be
surmounted; but though the wolf bounded over these with ease, it was
always waiting for the man on the other side after he had laboriously
climbed over. Deeper and deeper into the heart of the lonely forest
they penetrated in this singular fashion, cutting across the arc of
the lake's crescent, it seemed to Hyde; for after two miles or so, he
recognized the big rocky bluff that overhung the water at its northern
end. This outstanding bluff he had seen from his camp, one side of it
falling sheer into the water; it was probably the spot, he imagined,
where the Indians held their medicine-making ceremonies, for it stood
out in isolated fashion, and its top formed a private plateau not easy
of access. And it was here, close to a big spruce at the foot of the
bluff upon the forest side, that the wolf stopped suddenly and for
the first time since its appearance gave audible expression to its
feelings. It sat down on its haunches, lifted its muzzle with open
jaws, and gave vent to a subdued and long-drawn howl that was more like
the wail of a dog than the fierce barking cry associated with a wolf.

By this time Hyde had lost not only fear, but caution, too; nor, oddly
enough, did this warning howl revive a sign of unwelcome emotion in
him. In that curious sound he detected the same message that the eyes
conveyed--appeal for help. He paused, nevertheless, a little startled,
and while the wolf sat waiting for him, he looked about him quickly.
There was young timber here; it had once been a small clearing,
evidently. Ax and fire had done their work, but there was evidence to
an experienced eye that it was Indians and not white men who had once
been busy here. Some part of the medicine ritual, doubtless, took place
in the little clearing, thought the man, as he advanced again toward
his patient leader. The end of their queer journey, he felt, was close
at hand.

He had not taken two steps before the animal got up and moved very
slowly in the direction of some low bushes that formed a clump just
beyond. It entered these, first looking back to make sure that its
companion watched. The bushes hid it; a moment later it emerged again.
Twice it performed this pantomime, each time, as it reappeared,
standing still and staring at the man with as distinct an expression of
appeal in the eyes as an animal may compass, probably. Its excitement,
meanwhile, certainly increased, and this excitement was, with equal
certainty, communicated to the man. Hyde made up his mind quickly.
Gripping his ax tightly, and ready to use it at the first hint of
malice, he moved slowly nearer to the bushes, wondering with something
of a tremor what would happen.

If he expected to be startled, his expectation was at once fulfilled;
but it was the behavior of the beast that made him jump. It positively
frisked about him like a happy dog. It frisked for joy. Its excitement
was intense, yet from its open mouth no sound was audible. With a
sudden leap, then, it bounded past him into the clump of bushes,
against whose very edge he stood and began scraping vigorously at the
ground. Hyde stood and stared, amazement and interest now banishing all
his nervousness, even when the beast, in its violent scraping, actually
touched his body with its own. He had, perhaps, the feeling that he was
in a dream, one of those fantastic dreams in which things may happen
without involving an adequate surprise; for otherwise the manner of
scraping and scratching at the ground must have seemed an impossible
phenomenon. No wolf, no dog certainly, used its paws in the way those
paws were working. Hyde had the odd, distressing sensation that it was
hands, not paws, he watched. And yet, somehow, the natural, adequate
surprise he should have felt, was absent. The strange action seemed not
entirely unnatural. In his heart some deep hidden spring of sympathy
and pity stirred instead. He was aware of pathos.

The wolf stopped in its task and looked up into his face. Hyde acted
without hesitation then. Afterward he was wholly at a loss to explain
his own conduct. It seemed he knew what to do, divined what was asked,
expected of him. Between his mind and the dumb desire yearning through
the savage animal there was intelligent and intelligible communication.
He cut a stake and sharpened it, for the stones would blunt his
ax-edge. He entered the clump of bushes to complete the digging his
four-legged companion had begun. And while he worked, though he did not
forget the close proximity of the wolf, he paid no attention to it;
often his back was turned as he stooped over the laborious clearing
away of the hard earth; no uneasiness or sense of danger was in him
any more. The wolf sat outside the clump and watched the operations.
Its concentrated attention, its patience, its intense eagerness, the
gentleness and docility of the gray, fierce, and probably hungry brute,
its obvious pleasure and satisfaction, too, at having won the human to
its mysterious purpose--these were colors in the strange picture that
Hyde thought of later when dealing with the human herd in his hotel
again. At the moment he was aware chiefly of pathos and affection. The
whole business was, of course, not to be believed, but that discovery
came later, too, when telling it to others.

The digging continued for fully half an hour before his labor was
rewarded by the discovery of a small whitish object. He picked it up
and examined it--the finger-bone of a man. Other discoveries then
followed quickly and in quantity. The cache was laid bare. He collected
nearly the complete skeleton. The skull, however, he found last, and
might not have found at all but for the guidance of his strangely
alert companion. It lay some few yards away from the central hole
now dug, and the wolf stood nuzzling the ground with its nose before
Hyde understood that he was meant to dig exactly in that spot for it.
Between the beast's very paws his stake struck hard upon it. He scraped
the earth from the bone and examined it carefully. It was perfect,
save for the fact that some wild animal had gnawed it, the teeth-marks
being still plainly visible. Close beside it lay the rusty iron head of
a tomahawk. This and the smallness of the bones confirmed him in his
judgment that it was the skeleton not of a white man, but of an Indian.

During the excitement of the discovery of the bones one by one, and
finally of the skull, but, more especially, during the period of
intense interest while Hyde was examining them, he had paid little,
if any, attention to the wolf. He was aware that it sat and watched
him, never moving its keen eyes for a single moment from the actual
operations, but of sign or movement it made none at all. He knew that
it was pleased and satisfied, he knew also that he had now fulfilled
its purpose in a great measure. The further intuition that now came to
him, derived, he felt positive, from his companion's dumb desire, was
perhaps the cream of the entire experience to him. Gathering the bones
together in his coat, he carried them, together with the tomahawk, to
the foot of the big spruce where the animal had first stopped. His leg
actually touched the creature's muzzle as he passed. It turned its
head to watch, but did not follow, nor did it move a muscle while he
prepared the platform of boughs upon which he then laid the poor worn
bones of an Indian who had been killed, doubtless, in sudden attack or
ambush, and to whose remains had been denied the last grace of proper
tribal burial. He wrapped the bones in bark; he laid the tomahawk
beside the skull; he lit the circular fire round the pyre, and the blue
smoke rose upward into the clear bright sunshine of the Canadian autumn
morning till it was lost among the mighty trees far overhead.

In the moment before actually lighting the little fire he had turned
to note what his companion did. It sat five wards away, he saw, gazing
intently, and one of its front paws was raised a little from the
ground. It made no sign of any kind. He finished the work, becoming
so absorbed in it that he had eyes for nothing but the tending and
guarding of his careful ceremonial fire. It was only when the platform
of boughs collapsed, laying their charred burden gently on the
fragrant earth among the soft wood ashes, that he turned again, as
though to show the wolf what he had done, and seek, perhaps, some look
of satisfaction in its curiously expressive eyes. But the place he
searched was empty. The wolf had gone.

He did not see it again; it gave no sign of its presence anywhere; he
was not watched. He fished as before, wandered through the bush about
his camp, sat smoking round his fire after dark, and slept peacefully
in his cozy little tent. He was not disturbed. No howl was ever audible
in the distant forest, no twig snapped beneath a stealthy tread, he saw
no eyes. The wolf that behaved like a man had gone forever.

It was the day before he left that Hyde, noticing smoke rising from
the shack across the lake, paddled over to exchange a word or two with
the Indian, who had evidently now returned. The redskin came down to
meet him as he landed, but it was soon plain that he spoke very little
English. He emitted the familiar grunts at first; then bit by bit Hyde
stirred his limited vocabulary into action. The net result, however,
was slight enough, though it was certainly direct:

The Indian stared at him fixedly a moment, a keen, wondering look upon
his coppery, creased face.

“You 'fraid wolf?” he asked after a moment's pause.

“No,” replied Hyde, truthfully. He knew it was useless to ask questions
of his own, though he was eager for information. The other would have
told him nothing. It was sheer luck that the man had touched on the
subject at all, and Hyde realized that his own best rôle was merely
to answer, but to ask no questions. Then, suddenly, the Indian became
comparatively voluble. There was awe in his voice and manner.

“Him no wolf. Him big medicine wolf. Him spirit wolf.”

Whereupon he drank the tea the other had brewed for him, closed his
lips tightly, and said no more. His outline was discernible on the
shore, rigid and motionless, an hour later, when Hyde's canoe turned
the corner of the lake three miles away, and landed to make the
portages up the first rapid of his homeward stream.

It was Morton who, after some persuasion, supplied further details
of what he called the legend. Some hundred years before, the tribe
that lived in the territory beyond the lake began their annual
medicine-making ceremonies on the big rocky bluff at the northern end;
but no medicine could be made. The spirits, declared the chief medicine
man, would not answer. They were offended. An investigation followed.
It was discovered that a young brave had recently killed a wolf, a
thing strictly forbidden, since the wolf was the totem animal of the
tribe. To make matters worse, the name of the guilty man was Running
Wolf. The offense being unpardonable, the man was cursed and driven
from the tribe:

“Go out. Wander alone among the woods, and if we see you, we slay you.
Your bones shall be scattered in the forest, and your spirit shall not
enter the Happy Hunting Grounds till one of another race shall find and
bury them.”

“Which meant,” explained Morton, laconically, his only comment on the
story, “probably forever.”


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Show that the suggestions of the supernatural rise with
        cumulative power.

     2. How does the author make the setting contribute to the effect of
        the story?

     3. What is the character of the hero?

     4. Why did the author make the hero a solitary character?

     5. Why is the author so slow in introducing the wolf?

     6. What is the hero's attitude toward the supernatural?

     7. How does the hero's attitude toward the supernatural affect the
        reader?

     8. Point out the various means by which the author makes the story
        seem true.

     9. What is the character of the wolf?

    10. Why does the author hold the story of the legend until the last?

    11. Did Hyde believe the wolf was a “spirit-wolf”?

    12. Divide the story into a series of important incidents.

    13. Show how style contributes to effect.




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

If you are to imitate _Running Wolf_ successfully you must first
think of a story of the supernatural, a simple, easily-understood
story that will have a foundation of fact, and that will appear to be
reasonable in its use of the supernatural. Then, without introducing
your story immediately, show how a person who knows nothing of
it takes part in a series of events that lead him to understand the
story.

Make the setting of your story one that will contribute strongly to the
central effect. Do not give any definite explanation of the events that
you narrate. Give your reader such an abundance of suggestion that he
will be led to infer a supernatural explanation.

Hold until the last the basic story on which you found your entire
narration.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[27] A reference to Genesis 10:9, where Nimrod is called “a mighty
hunter before the Lord.”




                        THE BIOGRAPHICAL ESSAY




                          HOW I FOUND AMERICA
                          By ANZIA YEZIERSKA

    _In 1896 Miss Yezierska came from Plotzk in Russian Poland, where
    she was born. After hard experiences in a “sweat shop” she became
    a teacher of cooking. She is the author of_ Hungry Hearts. _Her
    dialect stories, strongly realistic and touching, appear in many
    magazines._

  =An autobiography is a straightforward story of the life of the
  writer. An autobiographical essay is a meditation on the events in
  one's own life.=

  =_How I Found America_ is an autobiographical essay. It does
  not tell the story of the writer's life: it tells the writer's
  thoughts preceding and after her arrival in America. As in all
  good essays, the subject is much greater than the writer. The
  meditation is purely personal, but it stirs a response in every
  thoughtful reader. It asks and answers the questions: “What do
  oppressed foreigners think America to be?” “What do immigrants find
  America to be?” “How can we make immigrants into the most helpful
  Americans?”=

  =The anecdotes that make the parts of the essay are as graphic as
  so many bold drawings. The principal sections of the essay are
  as distinct as the chapters of a book. At all times this essay
  concerns the question, “What is it to be an American?”=

  =In some respects this particular essay is like a musical
  composition; for it begins with a sort of prelude, rises through
  a series of movements, and culminates in a triumphant close,
  the whole composition being marked by the presence of a strong
  motif--the exaltation of the true spirit of America.=


Every breath I drew was a breath of fear, every shadow a stifling
shock, every footfall struck on my heart like the heavy boot of the
Cossack. On a low stool in the middle of the only room in our mud hut
sat my father, his red beard falling over the Book of Isaiah, open
before him. On the tile stove, on the benches that were our beds, even
on the earthen floor, sat the neighbors' children, learning from him
the ancient poetry of the Hebrew race. As he chanted, the children
repeated:

        The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness,
        Prepare ye the way of the Lord.
        Make straight in the desert a highway for our God.

        Every valley shall be exalted,
        And every mountain and hill shall be made low,
        And the crooked shall be made straight,
        And the rough places plain,
        And the glory of God shall be revealed,
        And all flesh shall see it together.

Undisturbed by the swaying and chanting of teacher and pupils, old
Kakah, our speckled hen, with her brood of chicks, strutted and pecked
at the potato-peelings that fell from my mother's lap as she prepared
our noon meal.

I stood at the window watching the road, lest the Cossack come upon us
unawares to enforce the ukase of the czar, which would tear the last
bread from our mouths: “No _chadir_ [Hebrew school] shall be held in a
room used for cooking and sleeping.”

With one eye I watched ravenously my mother cutting chunks of black
bread. At last the potatoes were ready. She poured them out of an iron
pot into a wooden bowl and placed them in the center of the table.

Instantly the swaying and chanting ceased. The children rushed forward.
The fear of the Cossack was swept away from my heart by the fear that
the children would get my potato, and deserting my post, with a shout
of joy I seized my portion and bit a huge mouthful of mealy delight.

At that moment the door was driven open by the blow of an iron heel.
The Cossack's whip swished through the air. Screaming, we scattered.
The children ran out--our livelihood with them.

“_Oi weh!_” wailed my mother, clutching at her breast, “is there a God
over us and sees all this?”

With grief-glazed eyes my father muttered a broken prayer as the
Cossack thundered the ukase: “A thousand-ruble fine, or a year in
prison, if you are ever found again teaching children where you're
eating and sleeping.”

“_Gottunieu!_” then pleaded my mother, “would you tear the last skin
from our bones? Where else should we be eating and sleeping? Or
should we keep _chadir_ in the middle of the road? Have we houses with
separate rooms like the czar?”

Ignoring my mother's protests, the Cossack strode out of the hut. My
father sank into a chair, his head bowed in the silent grief of the
helpless.

My mother wrung her hands.

“God from the world, is there no end to our troubles? When will the
earth cover me and my woes?”

I watched the Cossack disappear down the road. All at once I saw the
whole village running toward us. I dragged my mother to the window to
see the approaching crowd.

“_Gevalt!_ what more is falling over our heads?” she cried in alarm.

Masheh Mindel, the water-carrier's wife, headed a wild procession.
The baker, the butcher, the shoemaker, the tailor, the goatherd, the
workers in the fields, with their wives and children pressed toward us
through a cloud of dust.

Masheh Mindel, almost fainting, fell in front of the doorway.

“A letter from America!” she gasped.

“A letter from America!” echoed the crowd as they snatched the letter
from her and thrust it into my father's hands.

“Read, read!” they shouted tumultuously.

My father looked through the letter, his lips uttering no sound. In
breathless suspense the crowd gazed at him. Their eyes shone with
wonder and reverence for the only man in the village who could read.
Masheh Mindel crouched at his feet, her neck stretched toward him to
catch each precious word of the letter.

  To my worthy wife, Masheh Mindel, and to my loving son, Sushkah
  Feivel, and to my darling daughter, the apple of my eye, the pride
  of my life, Tzipkeleh!

  Long years and good luck on you! May the blessings from heaven fall
  over your beloved heads and save you from all harm!

  First I come to tell you that I am well and in good health. May I
  hear the same from you!

  Secondly, I am telling you that my sun is beginning to shine
  in America. I am becoming a person--a business man. I have for
  myself a stand in the most crowded part of America, where people
  are as thick as flies and every day is like market-day at a fair.
  My business is from bananas and apples. The day begins with my
  push-cart full of fruit, and the day never ends before I can
  count up at least two dollars' profit. That means four rubles.
  Stand before your eyes, I, Gedalyah Mindel, four rubles a day;
  twenty-four rubles a week!

“Gedalyah Mindel, the water-carrier, twenty-four rubles a week!” The
words leaped like fire in the air.

We gazed at his wife, Masheh Mindel, a dried-out bone of a woman.

“Masheh Mindel, with a husband in America, Masheh Mindel the wife of a
man earning twenty-four rubles a week! The sky is falling to the earth!”

We looked at her with new reverence. Already she was a being from
another world. The dead, sunken eyes became alive with light. The worry
for bread that had tightened the skin of her cheek-bones was gone. The
sudden surge of happiness filled out her features, flushing her face
as with wine. The two starved children clinging to her skirts, dazed
with excitement, only dimly realized their good fortune in the envious
glances of the others. But the letter went on:

  Thirdly, I come to tell you, white bread and meat I eat every day,
  just like the millionaires. Fourthly, I have to tell you that I am
  no more Gedalyah Mindel. _Mister_ Mindel they call me in America.
  Fifthly, Masheh Mindel and my dear children, in America there are
  no mud huts where cows and chickens and people live all together.
  I have for myself a separate room, with a closed door, and before
  any one can come to me, he must knock, and I can say, “Come in,” or
  “Stay out,” like a king in a palace. Lastly, my darling family and
  people of the village of Sukovoly, there is no czar in America.

My father paused. The hush was stifling. “No czar--no czar in America!”
Even the little babies repeated the chant, “No czar in America!”

  In America they ask everybody who should be the President. And I,
  Gedalyah Mindel, when I take out my citizen's papers, will have as
  much to say who shall be our next President as Mr. Rockefeller,
  the greatest millionaire. Fifty rubles I am sending you for your
  ship-ticket to America. And may all Jews who suffer in Golluth
  from ukases and pogroms live yet to lift up their heads like me,
  Gedalyah Mindel, in America.

Fifty rubles! A ship-ticket to America! That so much good luck should
fall on one head! A savage envy bit us. Gloomy darts from narrowed
eyes stabbed Masheh Mindel. Why should not we, too, have a chance to
get away from this dark land! Has not every heart the same hunger for
America, the same longing to live and laugh and breathe like a free
human being? America is for all. Why should only Masheh Mindel and her
children have a chance to the New World?

Murmuring and gesticulating, the crowd dispersed. Every one knew every
one else's thought--how to get to America. What could they pawn? From
where could they borrow for a ship-ticket?

Silently, we followed my father back into the hut from which the
Cossack had driven us a while before. We children looked from mother to
father and from father to mother.

“_Gottunieu!_ the czar himself is pushing us to America by this last
ukase.” My mother's face lighted up the hut like a lamp.

“_Meshugeneh Yideneh!_” admonished my father. “Always your head in
the air. What--where--America? With what money? Can dead people lift
themselves up to dance?”

“Dance?” The samovar and the brass pots reëchoed my mother's laughter.
“I could dance myself over the waves of the ocean to America.”

In amazed delight at my mother's joy, we children rippled and chuckled
with her. My father paced the room, his face dark with dread for the
morrow.

“Empty hands, empty pockets; yet it dreams itself in you--America,” he
said.

“Who is poor who has hopes on America?” flaunted my mother.

“Sell my red-quilted petticoat that grandmother left for my dowry,” I
urged in excitement.

“Sell the feather-beds, sell the samovar,” chorused the children.

“Sure, we can sell everything--the goat and all the winter things,”
added my mother. “It must be always summer in America.”

I flung my arms around my brother, and he seized Bessie by the curls,
and we danced about the room, crazy with joy.

“Beggars!” said my laughing mother. “Why are you so happy with
yourselves? How will you go to America without a shirt on your back,
without shoes on your feet?”

But we ran out into the road, shouting and singing:

“We'll sell everything we got; we're going to America. White bread and
meat we'll eat every day in America, in America!”

That very evening we brought Berel Zalman, the usurer, and showed him
all our treasures, piled up in the middle of the hut.

“Look! All these fine feather-beds, Berel Zalman!” urged my mother.
“This grand fur coat came from Nijny[28] itself. My grandfather bought
it at the fair.”

I held up my red-quilted petticoat, the supreme sacrifice of my
ten-year-old life. Even my father shyly pushed forward the samovar.

“It can hold enough tea for the whole village,” he declared.

“Only a hundred rubles for them all!” pleaded my mother, “only enough
to lift us to America! Only one hundred little rubles!”

“A hundred rubles! _Pfui!_” sniffed the pawnbroker. “Forty is overpaid.
Not even thirty is it worth.”

But, coaxing and cajoling, my mother got a hundred rubles out of him.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Steerage, dirty bundles, foul odors, seasick humanity; but I saw and
heard nothing of the foulness and ugliness about me. I floated in
showers of sunshine; visions upon visions of the New World opened
before me. From lip to lip flowed the golden legend of the golden
country:

“In America you can say what you feel, you can voice your thoughts in
the open streets without fear of a Cossack.”

“In America is a home for everybody. The land is your land, not, as in
Russia, where you feel yourself a stranger in the village where you
were born and reared, the village in which your father and grandfather
lie buried.”

“Everybody is with everybody alike in America. Christians and Jews are
brothers together.”

“An end to the worry for bread, an end to the fear of the bosses over
you. Everybody can do what he wants with his life in America.”

“There are no high or low in America. Even the President holds hands
with Gedalyah Mindel.”

“Plenty for all. Learning flows free, like milk and honey.”

“Learning flows free.” The words painted pictures in my mind. I saw
before me free schools, free colleges, free libraries, where I could
learn and learn and keep on learning. In our village was a school, but
only for Christian children. In the schools of America I'd lift up my
head and laugh and dance, a child with other children. Like a bird in
the air, from sky to sky, from star to star, I'd soar and soar.

“Land! land!” came the joyous shout. All crowded and pushed on deck.
They strained and stretched to get the first glimpse of the “golden
country,” lifting their children on their shoulders that they might see
beyond them. Men fell on their knees to pray. Women hugged their babies
and wept. Children danced. Strangers embraced and kissed like old
friends. Old men and old women had in their eyes a look of young people
in love. Age-old visions sang themselves in me, songs of freedom of an
oppressed people. America! America!

Between buildings that loomed like mountains we struggled with our
bundles, spreading around us the smell of the steerage. Up Broadway,
under the bridge, and through the swarming streets of the Ghetto, we
followed Gedalyah Mindel.

I looked about the narrow streets of squeezed-in stores and houses,
ragged clothes, dirty bedding oozing out of the windows, ash-cans and
garbage-cans cluttering the sidewalks. A vague sadness pressed down my
heart, the first doubt of America.

“Where are the green fields and open spaces in America?” cried my
heart. “Where is the golden country of my dreams?” A loneliness for the
fragrant silence of the woods that lay beyond our mud hut welled up
in my heart, a longing for the soft, responsive earth of our village
streets. All about me was the hardness of brick and stone, the smells
of crowded poverty.

“Here's your house, with separate rooms like a palace,” said Gedalyah
Mindel, and flung open the door of a dingy, airless flat.

“_Oi weh!_” cried my mother in dismay. “Where's the sunshine in
America?” She went to the window and looked out at the blank wall of
the next house. “_Gottunieu!_ Like in a grave so dark!”

“It ain't so dark; it's only a little shady,” said Gedalyah Mindel,
and lighted the gas. “Look only!”--he pointed with pride to the dim
gas-light--“No candles, no kerosene lamps, in America. You turn on a
screw, and put to it a match, and you got it light like with sunshine.”

Again the shadow fell over me, again the doubt of America. In America
were rooms without sunlight; rooms to sleep in, to eat in, to cook
in, but without sunshine, and Gedalyah Mindel was happy. Could I be
satisfied with just a place to sleep in and eat in, and a door to shut
people out, to take the place of sunlight? Or would I always need the
sunlight to be happy? And where was there a place in America for me to
play? I looked out into the alley below, and saw pale-faced children
scrambling in the gutter. “Where is America?” cried my heart.

My eyes were shutting themselves with sleep. Blindly I felt for the
buttons on my dress; and buttoning, I sank back in sleep again--the
dead-weight sleep of utter exhaustion.

“Heart of mine,” my mother's voice moaned above me, “father is already
gone an hour. You know how they'll squeeze from you a nickel for every
minute you're late. Quick only!”

I seized my bread and herring and tumbled down the stairs and out
into the street. I ate running, blindly pressing through the hurrying
throngs of workers, my haste and fear choking every mouthful. I felt
a strangling in my throat as I neared the sweat-shop prison; all my
nerves screwed together into iron hardness to endure the day's torture.

For an instant I hesitated as I faced the grated windows of the old
building. Dirt and decay cried out from every crumbling brick. In the
maw of the shop raged around me the roar and the clatter, the merciless
grind, of the pounding machines. Half-maddened, half-deadened, I
struggled to think, to feel, to remember. What am I? Who am I? Why am I
here? I struggled in vain, bewildered and lost in a whirlpool of noise.
“America--America, where was America?” it cried in my heart.

Then came the factory whistle, the slowing down of the machines,
the shout of release hailing the noon hour. I woke as from a tense
nightmare, a weary waking to pain. In the dark chaos of my brain reason
began to dawn. In my stifled heart feelings began to pulse. The wound
of my wasted life began to throb and ache. With my childhood choked
with drudgery, must my youth, too, die unlived?

Here were the odor of herring and garlic, the ravenous munching
of food, laughter and loud, vulgar jokes. Was it only I who was
so wretched? I looked at those around me. Were they happy or only
insensible to their slavery? How could they laugh and joke? Why were
they not torn with rebellion against this galling grind, the crushing,
deadening movements of the body, where only hands live, and hearts and
brains must die?

I felt a touch on my shoulder and looked up. It was Yetta Solomon, from
the machine next to mine.

“Here's your tea.”

I stared at her, half-hearing.

“Ain't you going to eat nothing?”

“_Oi weh_, Yetta! I can't stand it!” The cry broke from me. “I didn't
come to America to turn into a machine. I came to America to make from
myself a person. Does America want only my hands, only the strength of
my body, not my heart, not my feelings, my thoughts?”

“Our heads ain't smart enough,” said Yetta, practically. “We ain't been
to school, like the American-born.”

“What for did I come to America but to go to school, to learn, to
think, to make something beautiful from my life?”

“'Sh! 'Sh! The boss! the boss!” came the warning whisper.

A sudden hush fell over the shop as the boss entered. He raised his
hand. There was breathless silence. The hard, red face with the pig's
eyes held us under its sickening spell. Again I saw the Cossack and
heard him thunder the ukase. Prepared for disaster, the girls paled as
they cast at one another sidelong, frightened glances.

“Hands,” he addressed us, fingering the gold watch-chain that spread
across his fat stomach, “it's slack in the other trades, and I can get
plenty girls begging themselves to work for half what you're getting;
only I ain't a skinner. I always give my hands a show to earn their
bread. From now on I'll give you fifty cents a dozen shirts instead
of seventy-five, but I'll give you night-work, so you needn't lose
nothing.” And he was gone.

The stillness of death filled the shop. Every one felt the heart of
the other bleed with her own helplessness. A sudden sound broke the
silence. A woman sobbed chokingly. It was Balah Rifkin, a widow with
three children.

“_Oi weh!_”--she tore at her scrawny neck,--“the bloodsucker! the
thief! How will I give them to eat, my babies, my hungry little lambs!”

“Why do we let him choke us?”

“Twenty-five cents less on a dozen--how will we be able to live?”

“He tears the last skin from our bones.”

“Why didn't nobody speak up to him?”

Something in me forced me forward. I forgot for the moment how my whole
family depended on my job. I forgot that my father was out of work and
we had received a notice to move for unpaid rent. The helplessness of
the girls around me drove me to strength.

“I'll go to the boss,” I cried, my nerves quivering with fierce
excitement. “I'll tell him Balah Rifkin has three hungry mouths to
feed.”

Pale, hungry faces thrust themselves toward me, thin, knotted hands
reached out, starved bodies pressed close about me.

“Long years on you!” cried Balah Rifkin, drying her eyes with a corner
of her shawl.

“Tell him about my old father and me, his only bread-giver,” came from
Bessie Sopolsky, a gaunt-faced girl with a hacking cough.

“And I got no father or mother, and four of them younger than me
hanging on my neck.” Jennie Feist's beautiful young face was already
scarred with the gray worries of age.

America, as the oppressed of all lands have dreamed America to be, and
America as it is, flashed before me, a banner of fire. Behind me I felt
masses pressing, thousands of immigrants; thousands upon thousands
crushed by injustice, lifted me as on wings.

I entered the boss's office without a shadow of fear. I was not I; the
wrongs of my people burned through me till I felt the very flesh of my
body a living flame of rebellion. I faced the boss.

“We can't stand it,” I cried. “Even as it is we're hungry. Fifty cents
a dozen would starve us. Can you, a Jew, tear the bread from another
Jew's mouth?”

“You fresh mouth, you! Who are you to learn me my business?”

“Weren't you yourself once a machine slave, your life in the hands of
your boss?”

“You loafer! Money for nothing you want! The minute they begin to
talk English they get flies in their nose. A black year on you,
trouble-maker! I'll have no smart heads in my shop! Such freshness! Out
you get! Out from my shop!”

Stunned and hopeless, the wings of my courage broken, I groped my way
back to them--back to the eager, waiting faces, back to the crushed
hearts aching with mine.

As I opened the door, they read our defeat in my face.

“Girls,”--I held out my hands--“he's fired me.” My voice died in the
silence. Not a girl stirred. Their heads only bent closer over their
machines.

“Here, you, get yourself out of here!” the boss thundered at me.
“Bessie Sopolsky and you, Balah Rifkin, take out her machine into the
hall. I want no big-mounted _Americanerins_ in my shop.”

Bessie Sopolsky and Balah Rifkin, their eyes black with tragedy,
carried out my machine. Not a hand was held out to me, not a face met
mine. I felt them shrink from me as I passed them on my way out.

In the street I found I was crying. The new hope that had flowed in me
so strongly bled out of my veins. A moment before, our unity had made
me believe us so strong, and now I saw each alone, crushed, broken.
What were they all but crawling worms, servile grubbers for bread?

And then in the very bitterness of my resentment the hardness broke
in me. I saw the girls through their own eyes, as if I were inside of
them. What else could they have done? Was not an immediate crust of
bread for Balah Rifkin's children more urgent than truth, more vital
than honor? Could it be that they ever had dreamed of America as I had
dreamed? Had their faith in America wholly died in them? Could my faith
be killed as theirs had been?

Gasping from running, Yetta Solomon flung her arms around me.

“You golden heart! I sneaked myself out from the shop only to tell you
I'll come to see you to-night. I'd give the blood from under my nails
for you, only I got to run back. I got to hold my job. My mother--”

I hardly saw or heard her. My senses were stunned with my defeat. I
walked on in a blind daze, feeling that any moment I would drop in the
middle of the street from sheer exhaustion. Every hope I had clung to,
every human stay, every reality, was torn from under me. Was it then
only a dream, a mirage of the hungry-hearted people in the desert lands
of oppression, this age-old faith in America?

Again I saw the mob of dusty villagers crowding about my father as he
read the letter from America, their eager faces thrust out, their eyes
blazing with the same hope, the same faith, that had driven me on. Had
the starved villagers of Sukovoly lifted above their sorrows a mere
rainbow vision that led them--where? Where? To the stifling submission
of the sweat-shop or the desperation of the streets!

“God! God!” My eyes sought the sky, praying, “where--where is America?”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Times changed. The sweat-shop conditions that I had lived through had
become a relic of the past. Wages had doubled, tripled; they went up
higher and higher, and the working-day became shorter and shorter. I
began to earn enough to move my family uptown into a sunny, airy flat
with electricity and telephone service. I even saved up enough to buy a
phonograph and a piano.

My knotted nerves relaxed. At last I had become free from the worry
for bread and rent, but I was not happy. A more restless discontent
than ever before ate out my heart. Freedom from stomach needs only
intensified the needs of my soul.

I ached and clamored for America. Higher wages and shorter hours of
work, mere physical comfort, were not yet America. I had dreamed
that America was a place where the heart could grow big with giving.
Though outwardly I had become prosperous, life still forced me into an
existence of mere getting and getting.

_Ach!_ how I longed for a friend, a real American friend, some one to
whom I could express the thoughts and feelings that choked me! In the
Bronx, the uptown Ghetto, I felt myself farther away from the spirit
of America than ever before. In the East Side the people had yet
alive in their eyes the old, old dreams of America, the America that
would release the age-old hunger to give; but in the prosperous Bronx
good eating and good sleeping replaced the spiritual need for giving.
The chase for dollars and diamonds deadened the dreams that had once
brought them to America.

More and more the all-consuming need for a friend possessed me. In the
street, in the cars, in the subways, I was always seeking, ceaselessly
seeking for eyes, a face, the flash of a smile that would be light in
my darkness.

I felt sometimes that I was only burning out my heart for a shadow, an
echo, a wild dream, but I couldn't help it. Nothing was real to me but
my hope of finding a friend. America was not America to me unless I
could find an American that would make America real.

The hunger of my heart drove me to the night-school. Again my dream
flamed. Again America beckoned. In the school there would be education,
air, life for my cramped-in spirit. I would learn to think, to form
the thoughts that surged formless in me. I would find the teacher that
would make me articulate.

I joined the literature class. They were reading “The De Coverley
Papers.” Filled with insatiate thirst, I drank in every line with
the feeling that any moment I would get to the fountain-heart of
revelation. Night after night I read with tireless devotion. But of
what? The manners and customs of the eighteenth century, of people two
hundred years dead.

One evening, after a month's attendance, when the class had dwindled
from fifty to four, and the teacher began scolding us who were present
for those who were absent, my bitterness broke.

“Do you know why all the girls are dropping away from the class? It's
because they have too much sense than to waste themselves on 'The De
Coverley Papers.' Us four girls are four fools. We could learn more
in the streets. It's dirty and wrong, but it's life. What are 'The De
Coverley Papers'? Dry dust fit for the ash-can.”

“Perhaps you had better tell the principal your ideas of the standard
classics,” she scoffed, white with rage.

“All right,” I snapped, and hurried down to the principal's office.

I swung open the door.

“I just want to tell you why I'm leaving. I--”

“Won't you come in?” The principal rose and placed a chair for me
near her desk. “Now tell me all.” She leaned forward with an inviting
interest.

I looked up, and met the steady gaze of eyes shining with light. In a
moment all my anger fled. “The De Coverley Papers” were forgotten. The
warm friendliness of her face held me like a familiar dream. I couldn't
speak. It was as if the sky suddenly opened in my heart.

“Do go on,” she said, and gave me a quick nod. “I want to hear.”

The repression of centuries rushed out of my heart. I told her
everything--of the mud hut in Sukovoly where I was born, of the czar's
pogroms, of the constant fear of the Cossack, of Gedalyah Mindel's
letter, of our hopes in coming to America, and my search for an
American who would make America real.

“I am so glad you came to me,” she said. And after a pause, “You can
help me.”

“Help you?” I cried. It was the first time that an American suggested
that I could help her.

“Yes, indeed. I have always wanted to know more of that mysterious,
vibrant life--the immigrant. You can help me know my girls. You have so
much to give--”

“Give--that's what I was hungering and thirsting all these years--to
give out what's in me. I was dying in the unused riches of my soul.”

“I know; I know just what you mean,” she said, putting her hand on
mine.

My whole being seemed to change in the warmth of her comprehension. “I
have a friend,” it sang itself in me. “I have a friend!”

“And you are a born American?” I asked. There was none of that sure,
all-right look of the Americans about her.

“Yes, indeed. My mother, like so many mothers,”--and her eyebrows
lifted humorously whimsical,--“claims we're descendants of the Pilgrim
Fathers, and that one of our lineal ancestors came over in the
_Mayflower_.”

“For all your mother's pride in the Pilgrim Fathers, you yourself are
as plain from the heart as an immigrant.”

“Weren't the Pilgrim Fathers immigrants two hundred years ago?”

She took from her desk a book and read to me.

Then she opened her arms to me, and breathlessly I felt myself drawn to
her. Bonds seemed to burst. A suffusion of light filled my being. Great
choirings lifted me in space. I walked out unseeingly.

All the way home the words she read flamed before me: “We go forth all
to seek America. And in the seeking we create her. In the quality of
our search shall be the nature of the America that we create.”

So all those lonely years of seeking and praying were not in vain.
How glad I was that I had not stopped at the husk, a good job, a good
living! Through my inarticulate groping and reaching out I had found
the soul, the spirit of America.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What is the effect of the abrupt beginning? Where else in the
        essay is abruptness made a means of producing literary effect?

     2. Point out excellent use of local color.

     3. Divide the essay into its principal parts.

     4. Show that the essay rises in power.

     5. How does the writer arouse the reader's sympathy for the
        characters?

     6. How does the writer awaken the reader's patriotism?

     7. What opinion of America do oppressed foreigners have? To what
        extent is their opinion well founded? To what extent is their
        opinion not well founded?

     8. What impressions does a sea-coast city make upon immigrants?

     9. What sort of people oppress the immigrants after arrival in
        America?

    10. To what false beliefs is such oppression due?

    11. What opportunities does America present?

    12. What spirit should meet the aspirations of immigrants?

    13. What will do most to make immigrants into good Americans?

    14. Explain how the _Sir Roger de Coverley Papers_ may be taught so
        that they will apply to the present as well as to the past.

    15. How may we help immigrants to do work that will make them into
        good Americans?

    16. Show that the conclusion of the essay emphasizes its entire
        thought.

    17. Show what rhetorical methods are employed in the essay.



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Write down some worthy thought that you have concerning America.
Then write a series of extremely personal incidents that will
show graphically how you arrived at the thought you have in mind.
Make the incidents short, condensed, and highly emphatic. Employ
realistic characters, and give realistic quotations from their speech.
Use the incorrect grammar, the slang, and the foreign words that
the characters employ daily. Arrange the incidents so that they
will rise more and more to your principal thought. Make your last
incident reveal that thought.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[28] Nijny-Novgorood. A Russian city on the Volga, the scene of a great
annual fair.




                         MEMORIES OF CHILDHOOD
                       By WILLIAM HENRY SHELTON

    _(1840-). An American patriot and author. He served in many battles
    in the Civil War, and had thrilling experiences as a prisoner of
    war, escaping no less than four times. He is author of_ A Man
    Without a Memory; The Last Three Soldiers; The Three Prisoners.

  =Every one has happy memories of childhood. He loves to conjure up
  the old familiar scenes, the kindly people, and the days that were
  days of wonder.=

  =The two sketches by Mr. Shelton are extracts from a long essay
  called _Our Village_, in which he recalls delightfully all his
  early surroundings and all his old companionships.=

  =In these extracts, as in the entire essay, Mr. Shelton avoids
  formal autobiography. He merely recalls the things that impressed
  him most. As far as possible he lifts himself back into the spirit
  of the past, and sees once again, but with added love, the things
  that have gone forever.=


                            MY FIRST SCHOOL

One day in the summer when I was four years old I was taken to the
village school at the foot of the hill below the tavern. I have no
recollection of how I got there, but my return to my grandmother's
was so dramatic that it has impressed itself indelibly on my memory.
Perhaps I was taken to school by the sentimental schoolmistress
herself, who was a girl of sixteen and an intimate friend of my aunt,
to whom, in after years, when she became a famous novelist, she used
to send her books. Her maiden name was Mary Jane Hawes, but there was
a red-haired, freckle-faced boy in one of the pretty houses facing the
side of the church, who went to Yale College and gave her another name.

The school-house consisted of one room, with an entry without any floor
where the wood was cut and stored. The school-room was square, with a
box-stove in the center. A form against the wall extended around three
sides of the room, affording seats for the larger pupils, and in front
of these a row of oak desks for slates and books was fantastically
carved by generations of jack-knives, and made against the backs of a
second row of desks was a low front form for the A-B-C children. On
the fourth side, flanking the door, were a blackboard on one hand and
on the other the schoolma'am's desk, usually decorated with a bunch of
wild flowers or a red apple, either the gifts of a sincere admirer or
the would-be bribe of some trembling delinquent.

On the occasion of my first visit to the school I wore a blue-and-white
dress of muslin-de-laine that was afterward made into a cushion for a
rocking-chair in my mother's parlor. I was evidently dressed in my very
best in honor of the occasion, and all went well until recess came.
There was a rumble of thunder, and the sky had been growing dark with
portent of storm, and the leaves and dust were flying on the wind when
the children were released for play. I wanted to do everything that
the other boys did, and so, when they scampered out with a rush, I
followed without fear. Just as we came into the open the thunder-storm
burst upon us. The wind blew off one boy's hat and whirled it in the
direction of the village, and all the other boys joined in the chase.
As I started to follow them a gust of wind and rain beat me to the
ground, and drenched my dress with mud and water.

I was promptly rescued by the schoolma'am and taken into the entry,
where she undressed me on the wood-pile and wrapped me in her own
woolen shawl, which was a black-and-red pattern of very large
squares. Thus bundled up and rendered quite helpless except as to
my lungs, I was laid on the floor near the stove, where I remained
for the amusement of the children until the shower was over, when a
bushel-basket was sent for to the nearest house, which was the house of
shoemaker Talmadge. Into this basket, commonly used for potatoes and
corn, I was put, wrapped in the black-and-red shawl and packed around
with my soiled clothes, and two of the big boys, John Pierpont and
John Talmadge, carried me up the hill and through the village to my
grandmother's house.

In the summer following I went to school again, and again to the
sentimental schoolma'am, who loved to teach, but abhorred to punish.
Her gentle punishments rarely frightened the youngest children.

She would say, “Henry, you have disobeyed me, and I shall have to cut
off your ear,” and with these ominous words she would draw the back of
her penknife across the threatened ear. I must have been very small,
for on one occasion she threatened to shut me up in one of the school
desks.

Our mad recreation out of school was “playing horse.” We drove each
other singly and in pairs by means of wooden bits and reins of
sheep-twine, and some prancing horses were led, chewing one end of a
twine string, and neighing and prancing almost beyond the control of
the infant groom.

In the congressman's woods, close by the school-house, we built
stalls and mangers against logs and in fence corners, and gathered
horse-sorrel and sheep-sorrel for hay. The stalls were bedded with
grass and protected from the sun by a roof of green boughs, and the
horses were watered and curried and groomed in imitation of that
service at the stage stables, and the steeds themselves kicked and bit
like the vicious leaders.

Other teachers followed the young and sentimental one, and the surplus
of the dinner-baskets, thrown out of the window or cast upon the
wood-pile, bred a colony of gray rats that lived under the school-house
and came out to take the air in the quiet period after the door was
padlocked at night and even ventured to come up into the school-room
and look over the books and otherwise nibble at learning. When I had
advanced to the dignity of pictorial geography, as set forth in a thin,
square-built, dog-eared volume, which not having been opened for a
whole day by a certain prancing horse, he was left to learn his lesson
while the teacher went to tea at the house below the tavern, and the
wheat stubble under the window was soon alive with gray rodents that
looked like the colony of seals in the geography.

About this time the rats, having taken formal possession of the old
school-house, a new school-house was built in our village just beyond
my grandmother's house and facing her orchard.

          [Illustration: =“My great-grandmother.”=]      (_page 97_)


                         MY GREAT-GRANDMOTHER

My great-grandmother was the widow of an Episcopal clergyman, the Rev.
Titus Welton, whose son was the first rector of the village church.
My only acquaintance with my great-grandfather was connected with the
white headstone that bore his name in the graveyard. With the exception
of a quaint water-color portrait in profile of my grandmother in a
mob-cap bound with a black ribbon, which was equally a portrait of
the flowered back of the rocking-chair in which she sat, she survives
in my memory in a series of pictures. I see her sitting before the
open fire, knitting, with one steel needle held in a knitting-sheath
pinned to her left side, or taking snuff from a flat, round box that
contained a vanilla bean to perfume the snuff. Her hands were twisted
with rheumatism, and she walked with a cane. On one occasion I trotted
by her side to church and carried her tin foot-stove, warm with glowing
coals.

She slept in a high post bed in her particular room over the
sitting-room, which was warmed in winter by a sheet-iron drum connected
with the stove below, and in one corner was a copper warming-pan with a
long handle. When I sat at table in my high-chair eating apple-pie in a
bowl of milk, she sat on the side nearest the fire eating dipped toast
with a two-tined fork. The fork may have had three tines, but silver
forks had not yet made their appearance.

My great-grandmother lived just long enough to have her picture
taken on a plate of silvered copper by the wonderful process of
Daguerre,[29] a process so like something diabolical that she protected
her soul from evil, as all sitters in that part of the country did,
by resting her hand on a great Bible, the back turned to the front,
so that the letters “Holy Bible” could be read, proving that the
great book was not a profane dictionary. The operator who took her
daguerreotype traveled from town to town, hiring a room in the village
tavern furnished with a chair, a stand on tripod legs, a brown linen
table-cloth, and the aforesaid Bible, and when such of the people as
had the fee to spare, the courage to submit to a new-fangled idea, and
no fear that the face on the magical plate would fade away like any
other spirit face when they opened the stamped-leather case with the
red plush lining after it had lain overnight in the darkened parlor, he
moved on like the cracker baker or any other itinerant showman.

My great-grandmother had never sent or received a message by telegraph
or ridden in a railway-carriage, and died in peace just before those
portentous inventions came to destroy forever the small community life
in which she had lived.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

    1. Why does the writer employ such simple language?

    2. What sort of events does he narrate?

    3. Why does he give so few details concerning his early schooldays?

    4. How does he look upon his early misfortunes?

    5. Why does he do little more than present the picture of his
       great-grandmother?

    6. Point out examples of gentle humor.

    7. What do the sketches reveal concerning life in the past?

    8. What spirit characterizes both sketches?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Throw yourself back into the past. Conjure up the people with
whom you used to associate. See once again the places where you
played and where you lived. Think how happy it all was, and how
good it is to look at it once more. Then put down on paper the
things that you remember with the greatest interest. Write in such
a way that you will give the reader the very spirit that you have.
Remember: you are not to communicate facts; you are to communicate
emotion.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[29] Louis Daguerre (1789-1859). A French painter who perfected one of
the earliest methods of photography.




                       A VISIT TO JOHN BURROUGHS
                         By SADAKICHI HARTMANN

    _Author of the first_ History of American Art, _and also of a_
    History of Japanese Art. _His poems, short stories, and essays
    appear in many magazines_.

  =John Burroughs was a delightful essayist and a delightful man.
  Although he preferred to live the most simple of lives and to spend
  his time in meditation on the beauties of natural scenery, and the
  wonders of animal life, he attracted to himself the companionship
  of some of the greatest in the land, and the love of all people. To
  visit him would, indeed, have been a delight.=

  =_A Visit to John Burroughs_ is not a dull narrative of the
  events of a visit, nor is it the report of an interview with the
  nature-lover. It is an article that admits one into the charm of
  Burroughs' spirit. We are with the man in his simple, book-filled
  home; we learn his love for pasture and mountain-side, for birds
  and for gardening; and we gain some of that spirit of contentment
  and peace that made him, in his gray old age, appear like a prophet
  in the midst of an over-hurrying generation.=


In some places time passes without making any change. The little
village on the Hudson where John Burroughs made his home half a century
ago has shown no ambition of expansion. There is no building activity,
and the number of inhabitants has scarcely increased. The little church
stands drowsily on the hill, and the same old homesteads grace the
road. More freight-trains may rattle by, and more automobiles pass on
the main road, but the physiognomy of the town has remained unchanged.
It is as if time had stood still. The mist shuts out the rest of the
world, river and hills disappear, the stems of the grape-vines look
like a host of goblins, and the wet trees make darker silhouettes than
usual.

I knocked at a door and entered, and there sat John Burroughs stretched
at full length in a Morris chair before some glowing beech-sticks in
the open fireplace. There was not much conversation. What is most
interesting in an author's life he expresses in his books, and so we
indulged only in an exchange of phrases about his health, of the
flight of time, and a few favored authors. The questioning of the
interviewer can produce only forced results, and in particular when the
interviewed person has reached an age when taciturnity becomes natural,
and one prefers to gaze at the dying embers and listen to the drip of
the rain outside. That his interest in literature did not lag was shown
by a set of Fabre,[30] whom he pronounced the most wonderful exponent
in his special line.

A quaint interior was this quiet little room. Conspicuous were the
portraits of Whitman,[31] Carlyle,[32] Tolstoy,[33] Roosevelt,[34] and
Father Brown of the Holy Order of the Cross, men who in one way or
another must have meant something to his life. On the mantelpiece stood
another portrait of Whitman and a reproduction of “Mona Lisa.”[35]
There were windows on every side, and the rest of the walls consisted
of shelves filled with nature books. One shelf displayed the more
scientific works, and one was devoted entirely to his own writings. It
was the same room in which several years ago, on a summer day in the
vagrom days of youth, I had read for the first time “Wake Robin,”[36]
that classic of out-of-door literature, and “The Flight of the Eagle,”
an appreciation of Walt Whitman.

John Burroughs was fifty then, and had just settled down seriously to
his literary pursuits. He had risen brilliantly from youthful penury
to be the owner of a large estate. His latest achievement was “Signs
and Seasons”; “Riverby,” a number of essays of out-of-door observations
around his stone house by the Hudson, was in the making.

There is a wonderful fascination in these books. They reveal a man who
has lived widely and intimately, who has made nature his real home. All
day long he is mingled with the heart of things; every walk along the
river, into the woods, or up the hills is an adventure. He exploits the
teachings of experience rather than of books. His essays are always
fused with actions of the open. One feels exhilaration in making the
acquaintance of a man with an unnarrowed soul who has burst free from
the shackles of intellectual authority, who joyfully and buoyantly
interprets the beauties about him, shunning no such pleasures as
jumping a fence, wading a brook, or climbing a tree or mountain-side.

American literature has always abounded with nature speculation and
research. Bryant[37] was a true poet of nature; he loved woods,
mountain, and river, and his “To the Yellow Wood Violet,” and “The
Blue Gentian” are gems of pictorial nature-writing. Whittier[38]
transfigured the beauty of New England life in one poem “Snowbound,”
and in his “Autumn Walk” leisurely strolled to the portals of
immortality. Whitman stalked about on the open road like a
pantheist.[39]

Yet none had the faculties of discovery and interpretation like
John Burroughs, the intimate knowledge, the warm vision, to which a
wood-pile can become a matter of contemplation, and a back yard or a
garden patch become as interesting as any scenery in the world. None
of them could have lectured on apple-trees or gray squirrels with such
intimacy as Burroughs. Burroughs has never any sympathy with the
“pathetic fallacy of endowing inanimate objects with human attributes,”
nor would he indorse Machin's propaganda idea of the antagonism of
animals against their human masters.

A trout leaping in a mountain stream, the lively whistle of a bird
high in the upper air, a bird's nest in an old fence post--these are
some of the topics nearest his heart. No nature-writer has ever shown
such diversity of interest. Even _Rip Van Winkle_ did not know the
mountains as well as does this camper and tramper for a lifetime on
the same familiar grounds; over and over again he makes the round from
Riverby to Slabsides, to Roxbury in the western Catskills, and back
again to the rustic studio near the river. He knows every pasture,
mountain-side, and valley of his chosen land. He even named some of
the hills. One of them, much frequented by bees, he named “Mount
Hymettus,”[40] because there “from out the garden hives, the humming
cyclone of humming bees” liked to congregate.

But is his minute observation of weed seeds in the open field or insect
eggs on tree-trunks not disastrous to literary expression? Can this
style of writing soar above straightforward nature-writing of men like
Wilson,[41] Muir,[42] White,[43] and Chapman?[44] Burroughs is capable
of making a long-winded analysis of the downward perch of the head of
the nut-hatch, but he is no Audubon.[45] As a literary man he is an
essayist who etches little vignettes, one after the other, with rare
precision. How fine is his sentence about the unmusical song of the
blackbirds! “The air is filled with crackling, splintering, spurting,
semi-musical sounds which are like salt and pepper to the ear.”
Here the poetic temperament finds an utterance far beyond the broad
knowledge of nature.

And there is his fine appreciation of Walt Whitman, his grasp of
literary values despite working in a comparatively smaller field of
activity. John Burroughs has a good deal of Whitman about him, whom he
called “the one mountain in our literary landscape.” The man of Riverby
is not large of stature, but has the same nonchalance of deportment,
the flowing beard, and the ruddy face, a few shades darker than that
of the good gray poet; for Whitman was, after all, a city man, while
Burroughs always lived his life out of doors.

We talked about the looks of Whitman, whom he had known in Washington
in the sixties.

“Yes, he had a decided vitality, although he was already gray and bent
at that time. Yes, he would talk if one could draw him out.”

“I believe he talked only for Traubel,”[46] I dryly remarked, at which
Burroughs was greatly amused.

Emerson[47] was the god of Burroughs's youth, but Whitman undoubtedly
exercised the more lasting influence. This, however, never touched
Burroughs's own peculiar nature-fresh-and-homespun style. It lingered
only as a vague inspiration in the under rhythm of his work. Whitman
had the macrocosmic vision,[48] while Burroughs is an adherent of
microcosm. Few can combine both qualities.

Burroughs is an amateur farmer and gardener. He prunes his cherrytrees,
cures hay, and thinks of new methods of mowing grain. He experimented
with grape-vines, a rather futile occupation at this period of social
evolution. He has been a great cherry-picker all his life, and I
remember with keen pleasure how delicious those wild raspberries
tasted that I shared with him one summer day. He has a celery farm
at Roxbury, his birthplace, and when I was last at Slabsides, his
bungalow in the hills near West Park, I saw nothing but beets for
cattle. I was astonished at this peculiar, indeed, prosaic pastime. And
still more so that he had chosen for residence a site in a hollow of
the mountain-side, while only a few steps above one can enjoy a most
gorgeous view of the surrounding country. Did he make the selection
because the place is more sheltered? No, I believe he chose the place
intuitively, because it expresses his particular point of view of
life. The keen breeze and the wide view serve only for occasional
inspiration; but the undergrowth vegetation, the crust of soil, the hum
of insects, the little flowers--these are the true stimulants of his
eloquent simplicity of style.

Burroughs professed to have a great admiration for Turguenieff's[49]
“Diary of a Sportsman.” These exquisite prose poems represent nature
at its best, but they are purely poetic, pictorial, with a big cosmic
swing to them. This is out of the reach of Burroughs, and he never
attempted it. His poems contain, as he says himself, more science and
observation than poetry. A few beautiful lines everybody can learn to
write, and unless they are fragments of a torso of the most intricate
and beautiful construction, they will drop like the slanting rain into
the dark wastes of oblivion.

His lessons of nature, accepted as text-books in the public schools,
have a true message to convey. They represent the socialization of
science. He loves the birds and learned their ways; he could run his
course aright, as he has placed his goal rightly. He stirred the earth
about the roots of his knowledge deeply, and thereby entered a new
field of thought. He became interested in final causes, design in
nature.

The transcendentalist[50] of the Emersonian period at last came to
his own. There is something of the bigness of Thoreau[51] in his
recent writings, Thoreau who in his “Concord and Merrimac River” had a
mystical vision, a grip on religious thought, and who, like a craftsman
in cloisonné, hammered his philosophic speculations upon the frugal
shapes of his observations. In “Ways of Nature” and “Leaf and Tendril”
Burroughs has reached out as far as it is possible for a nature
writer without becoming a philosopher. He now no longer contemplates
the outward appearance of things, but their organic structure, the
geological formation of the earth's crust, and the evolution of life.
And some ledge of rock will now give him the prophetic gaze into the
past and into the future.

And so John Burroughs at eighty-five, still chopping the wood for
his own fireside, writing, lecturing, giving advice about phases of
farm-work, strolling over the ground, still interested in literature,
can serenely fold his hands and wait.

Indeed, this white-bearded man, in his bark-covered study amidst veiled
heights and blurred river scenes, furnishes a wonderful intimate
picture which will linger in American literature and in the minds of
all who yearn for a more intimate knowledge of nature, unaffectedly
told, like the song of the robin of his first love, “a harbinger of
spring thoughts carrying with it the fragrance of the first flowers and
the improving verdure of the fields.”


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. How does the first paragraph indicate the key-note of the
        article?

     2. What do Burroughs' pictures and books show concerning his
        character?

     3. What sort of life did Burroughs lead?

     4. What is meant by “exploiting the teaching of experience rather
        than of books”?

     5. How did Burroughs find happiness?

     6. What is said concerning Burroughs' faculties of discovery and
        interpretation?

     7. What diversity of interests did Burroughs show?

     8. What is said concerning Burroughs' work as an essayist?

     9. Why was Burroughs fond of Walt Whitman?

    10. How did Burroughs gain literary style?

    11. What is meant by the “socialization of science”?

    12. What makes Burroughs such a charming person?

    13. Into what sections may the article be divided?

    14. What does the article reveal concerning its author?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Write about an actual visit or interview. In all your work pay most
attention to presenting the spirit of the person whom you talk with.
The events of your visit, and the remarks that are made, are of less
importance than the things that reveal spirit,--the surroundings, the
costume, the habits, the work done and the various things that show
character. The essay is in no sense to be the story of a visit; it is
to give an intimate picture of the person in whom you are interested.
Your object is to show character.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[30] Jean Henri Fabre (1823-1915). A French entomologist who wrote many
volumes on insect life, among them being _The Life and Love of the
Insects_; _The Life of the Spider_; _The Life of the Fly_.

[31] Walt Whitman (1819-1892). An American poet, noted for highly
original poems marked by absence of rhyme and metre. Whitman loved the
outdoor world, and had great philosophic insight.

[32] Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881). A brilliant English essayist and
historian, strikingly original and unconventional, and a firm upholder
of stalwart manhood.

[33] Count Leo Tolstoy (1828-1910). A great Russian novelist, reformer
and philosopher,--a bold and original thinker.

[34] Theodore Roosevelt (1858-1919). Ranchman, author, soldier,
explorer, and President of the United States, a man of sterling manhood
and great personal fearlessness.

[35] Mona Lisa. A picture of a lady of Florence, painted about 1504
by Leonardo da Vinci, an Italian painter. The face has a peculiarly
tantalizing expression.

[36] _Wake Robin._ One of John Burroughs' delightful outdoor books,
written in 1870.

[37] William Cullen Bryant (1794-1878). The first great American poet;
author of _Thanatopsis_; noted for his love of nature.

[38] John Greenleaf Whittier (1807-1892). An American poet who wrote
lovingly of New England life and scenery. He is noted for his poems
against slavery.

[39] Pantheist. One who sees God in everything that exists.

[40] Mount Hymettus. A mountain in Greece from which most excellent
honey was obtained in classic times.

[41] Alexander Wilson (1766-1813). Born in Scotland and died in
Philadelphia; author of a remarkable study of American birds, published
in nine volumes.

[42] John Muir (1838-1914). An American naturalist and explorer of the
west and of Alaska.

[43] Gilbert White (1720-1793). An English naturalist, noted for his
_Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne_.

[44] Frank M. Chapman (1864--). An American writer on bird life. He is
especially noted for excellent work in photographing birds.

[45] John James Audubon (1780-1851). A great American student of birds;
noted for his exact drawings of birds.

[46] Horace Traubel (1858-1919). An American editor who was the
literary executor of Walt Whitman.

[47] Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882). An American poet and philosopher;
a man of marked individuality and power.

[48] Macrocosmic. The sentence means that Whitman looked upon the world
and upon the universe as a whole, while Burroughs studied little or
individual things in order to understand the whole.

[49] Ivan Turguenieff (1818-1883). A Russian novelist whose _Diary of a
Sportsman_ aided in bringing about the freeing of Russian serfs.

[50] Transcendentalist. One who believes in principles that can not be
proved by experiment.

[51] Henry David Thoreau (1817-1862). An American essayist, naturalist
and philosopher.




                        WASHINGTON ON HORSEBACK
                            By H. A. OGDEN

    (_1856_--). _An illustrator, particularly of American historical
    subjects, on which he is an authority. His most noted work is 71
    color plates of uniforms of the U. S. Army, 1775-1906. He made the
    original cartoons for the Washington memorial window in the Valley
    Forge memorial. He is the author and illustrator of_ The Boys Book
    of Famous Regiments; Our Flag and Our Songs; The Voyage of the
    Mayflower; Our Army for Our Boys _(joint author); and numerous
    magazine articles of a historical nature._

  =The ordinary magazine article, lacking the personal note, is not an
  essay. As a rule, such an article endeavors to present a subject in
  its entirety, to follow a strictly logical order, and to avoid any
  expression of personal reaction on the part of the writer.=

  =Some magazine articles, however, are written in such an easy,
  chatty style, without any hint of attempt to cover a subject either
  completely or logically, that they approach the essay form.=

  =_Washington on Horseback_ is an article that closely resembles an
  essay. It is discursive, anecdotal, wandering and is much like a
  pleasant talk about Washington and his love of horses. Although the
  writer keeps himself entirely behind the scenes it is evident that
  he is a man who admires horses as well as manliness and courage.=


“The best horseman of his age, and the most graceful figure that
could be seen on horseback,” was Thomas Jefferson's opinion of his
great fellow-Virginian, George Washington. From his early boyhood, a
passionate fondness for the horse was a strong and lasting trait of our
foremost American.

When a little boy of eight, he was given his first riding-lessons on
his pony Hero by Uncle Ben, an old servant (perhaps a slave) of his
father's.

On one occasion, when under the paternal eye, he tried over and over
again to leap his pony. When he finally succeeded in doing so, both
rider and pony fell; but jumping up, the boy was quickly in the saddle
again, his father, a masterful man who hated defeat, exclaiming, “That
was ill ridden; try it again!” This happening near their home, his
mother rushed out, greatly alarmed, and begged them to stop. Finding
her entreaties were unheeded, she returned to the house protesting that
her boy would “surely be murdered!” And during all of her long life
this dread of the dangers her son incurred was one of her striking
characteristics.

This early training in riding, however, was greatly to the boy's
advantage; for his satisfaction in conquering horses and training them
made him a fine horseman and prepared him for the coming years when he
was to be so much in the saddle.

A notable instance of early intrepidity in the tall and athletic boy,
in his early teens, in mastering a wild, unmanageable colt is related
by G. W. P. Custis,[52] Washington's adopted son. The story goes that
this colt, a thoroughbred sorrel, was a favorite of Washington's
mother, her husband having been much attached to him. Of a vicious
nature, no one had thus far ventured to ride him; so before breakfast
one morning, George, aided by some of his companions, corraled the
animal and succeeded in getting bit and bridle in place.

Leaping on his back, the venturesome youth was soon tearing around the
enclosure at breakneck speed, keeping his seat firmly and managing his
mount with a skill that surprised and relieved the fears of the other
boys. An unlooked-for end to the struggle came, however, when, with a
mighty effort, the horse reared and plunged with such violence that he
burst a blood-vessel and in a moment was dead.

Looking at the fallen steed, the boys asked “What's to be done? Who
will tell the tale?” The answer soon had to be given; for when they
went in to the morning meal, Mrs. Washington asked if they had seen her
favorite horse. Noting their embarrassment, she repeated the question;
when George spoke up and told the whole story of the misadventure.
“George, I forgive you, because you have had the courage to tell the
truth at once,” was her characteristic reply.

Upon their father's death, his accomplished brother Lawrence took an
active interest in George's education and development. The boy had
taken a strong hold on Lawrence's affection, which the younger brother
returned by a devoted attachment. Among other accomplishments, George
was encouraged to perfect his horsemanship by the promise of a horse,
together with some riding clothes from London--especially a red coat
and a pair of spurs, sure to appeal to the spirit and daring of the
youth.

His first hunting venture, as told by Dr. Weir Mitchell[53] in “The
Youth of Washington,” occurred on a Saturday morning,--a school
holiday even in those days,--when, there being none to hinder, George
having persuaded an old groom to saddle a hunter, he galloped off to
a fox-hunting “meet” four miles away. Greatly amused, the assembled
huntsmen asked if he could stay on, and if the horse knew he had a
rider? To which George replied that the big sorrel he rode knew his
business; and he was in at the kill of two foxes. On the way back
the horse went lame, and on arriving at the stable the rider saw an
overseer about to punish Sampson, the groom, for letting the boy take
a horse that was about to be sold. He quickly dismounted and snatched
the whip from the overseer's hand, exclaiming that he was to blame and
should be whipped first. The man answered that his mother would decide
what to do; but the boy never heard of the matter again. The anger he
showed on this occasion caused old Sampson to admonish him never to
“get angry with a horse.”

When about sixteen, George lived a great part of the time at Mount
Vernon, Lawrence's home, where he made many friends among the “Old
Dominion” gentry, the most prominent of them being Thomas, Lord
Fairfax, an eccentric old bachelor, residing with his kindred at
Belvoir, an adjoining estate on the Potomac. As this had been the
home of Anne Fairfax, Lawrence's wife, the brothers were ever welcome
guests. Attracted to each other by the fact that both were bold and
skilful riders and by their love of horses, a lifelong friendship was
formed between the tall Virginian, a stripling in his teens, and the
elderly English nobleman, and many a hard ride they took together, with
a pack of hounds, over the rough country, chasing the gray foxes of
that locality.

Settled at Mount Vernon, in the years following his marriage and up
to the beginning of the War for Independence, Washington found great
pleasure in his active, out-of-door life, his greatest amusement being
the hunt, which gratified to the full his fondness for horses and dogs.

His stables were full, numbering at one time one hundred and forty
horses, among them some of the finest animals in Virginia. Magnolia,
an Arabian, was a favorite riding-horse; while Chinkling, Valiant,
Ajax, and Blue-skin were also high-bred hunters. His pack of hounds was
splendidly trained, and “meets” were held three times a week in the
hunting season.

After breakfasting by candle-light, a start was made at daybreak.
Splendidly mounted, and dressed in a blue coat, scarlet vest, buckskin
breeches, and velvet cap, and in the lead,--for it was Washington's
habit to stay close up with the hounds,--the excitement of the chase
possessed a strong fascination for him.

These hunting parties are mentioned in many brief entries in his
diaries. In 1768, he writes: “Mr. Bryan Fairfax, Mr. Grayson, and Phil
Alexander came home by sunrise. Hunted and catched a fox with these:
Lord Fairfax, his brother, and Colonel Fairfax and his brother; all of
whom with Mr. Fairfax and Mr. Wilson of England dined here.” Again, on
November 26 and 29: “Hunted again with the same party.” 1768,--January
8: “Hunting again with the same company--started a fox and run him four
hours.” Thus we learn from his own pen how frequently this manly sport,
that kept him young and strong, was followed by the boldest rider in
all Virginia.

A seven-years absence during the war caused the hunting establishment
of Mount Vernon to run down considerably; but on returning in 1783,
after peace came, the sport was renewed vigorously for a time.

Blue-skin, an iron-gray horse of great endurance in a long run, was
the general's favorite mount during those days. With Billy Lee, the
huntsman, blowing the big French horn, a present from Lafayette,--the
fox was chased at full speed over the rough fields and through such
tangled woods and thickets as would greatly astonish the huntsmen of
to-day.

What with private affairs, official visits, and the crowd of guests at
his home, Washington felt obliged to give up this sport he so loved,
for his last hunt with the hounds is said to have been in 1785.

To return to his youthful days. At sixteen he was commissioned to
survey Lord Fairfax's vast estates, and soon after was appointed
a public surveyor. The three years of rough toil necessitated by
his calling were spent continually in the saddle. Those youthful
surveys, being made with George's characteristic thoroughness, stand
unquestioned to this day.

The beginning of his active military career started with a long,
difficult journey of five hundred miles to the French fort on the Ohio,
most of which was made in the saddle. It was hard traveling for the
young adjutant general of twenty-one accompanied by a small escort.
On the return journey, the horses were abandoned, and it was when
traveling on foot that his miraculous escapes from a shot fired by a
treacherous Indian guide and from drowning, occurred.

When, in 1755, the British expedition against the French fort on
the Monongahela, commanded by General Braddock, started out from
Alexandria, Washington, acting as one of the general's aides, was
too ill to start with it; but when the day of action came, the day
that the French and Indians ambushed the “red-coats,” the young
Virginia colonel, although still weak, rode everywhere on the field of
slaughter, striving to rally the panic-stricken regulars; and although
two horses had been shot under him, he was the only mounted officer
left at the end of the fight.

On the occasion of Washington's first visit to Philadelphia, New
York, and Boston, in 1756, he rode the whole distance, with two aides
and servants, to confer with Governor Shirley of Massachusetts and
settle with him the question of his army rank. He was appropriately
equipped for his mission, and the description of the little cavalcade
is very striking. Washington, in full uniform of a Virginia colonel, a
white-and-scarlet cloak, sword-knot of red and gold, his London-made
holsters and saddle-cloth trimmed with his livery “lace” and the
Washington arms, his aides also in uniform, with the servants in their
white-and-scarlet liveries, their cocked hats edged with silver,
bringing up the rear, attracted universal notice. Everywhere he was
received with enthusiasm, his fame having gone before him. Dined
and fêted in Philadelphia and New York, he spent ten days with the
hospitable royal governor of Massachusetts. The whole journey was a
success, bringing him, as it did, in contact with new scenes and people.

It seems noteworthy that in accounts of the campaigns and battles of
the Revolution such frequent mention is made of the commander-in-chief
on horseback. From the time he rode from Philadelphia to take command
of the army at Cambridge, in 1775, down to the capitulation of Yorktown
in 1783, his horses were an important factor in his campaigns. Among
many such incidents, a notable one is that which occurred when, after
the defeat of the Americans at Brooklyn and their retreat across the
river to New York, Washington in his report to Congress wrote: “Our
passage across the East River was effected yesterday morning; and for
forty-eight hours preceding that I had hardly been off my horse and
never closed my eyes.” He was, in fact, the last to leave, remaining
until all his troops had been safely ferried across.

An all-night ride to Princeton, in bitter cold, over frozen roads, and,
when day dawned, riding fearlessly over the field to rally his men,
reining in his charger within thirty yards of the enemy, forms another
well-known incident.

At the battle of Brandywine an old farmer was pressed into service to
lead the way to where the battle was raging, and he relates that as his
horse took the fences Washington was continually at his side, saying
repeatedly: “Push along, old man; push along!” Shortly after the
defeat at Brandywine, General Howe's advance regiments were attacked
at Germantown; and here, as at Princeton, Washington, in spite of the
protests of his officers, rode recklessly to the front when things were
going wrong.

After the hard winter at Valley Forge, and when in June of 1778 the
British abandoned Philadelphia he took up the march to Sandy Hook,
Washington resolved to attack them on their route. On crossing the
Delaware in pursuit of the enemy, Governor William Livingston of New
Jersey presented to the commander-in-chief a splendid white horse, upon
which he hastened to the battle-field of Monmouth.

Mr. Custis in his “Recollections of Washington,” states that on the
morning of the twenty-eighth of June, he rode, and _for that time only_
during the war, a white charger. Galloping forward, he met General
Charles Lee,[54] with the advanced guard, falling back in confusion.
Indignant at the disobedience of his orders, Washington expressed his
wrath in peremptory language, Lee being ordered to the rear. Riding
back and forth through the fire of the enemy, animating his soldiers,
and recalling them to their duty he reformed the lines and turned the
battle tide by his vigorous measures. From the overpowering heat of
the day, and the deep and sandy soil, his spirited white horse sank
under him and expired. A chestnut mare, of Arabian stock, was quickly
mounted, this beautiful animal being ridden through the rest of the
battle. Lafayette, always an ardent admirer of Washington, told in
later years of Monmouth, where he had commanded a division, and how his
beloved chief, splendidly mounted, cheered on his men. “I thought then
as now,” said the enthusiastic Frenchman, “that never had I beheld so
superb a man.”

Of all his numerous war-horses, the greatest favorite was Nelson--a
large, light sorrel, with white face and legs, named after the patriot
governor of Virginia. In many battles,--often under fire,--Nelson had
carried his great master and was the favored steed at the crowning
event of the war--the capitulation of Yorktown.

Living to a good old age, and never ridden after Washington ceased
to mount him, the veteran charger was well taken care of, grazing in
a paddock through the summers. And often, as the retired general and
President made the rounds of his fields, the old war-horse would run
neighing to the fence, to be caressed by the hand of his former master.

During the eight years of his Presidency, Washington frequently took
exercise on horseback, his stables containing at that time as many as
ten coach- and saddle-horses.

When in Philadelphia, then the seat of government, the President owned
two pure white saddle-horses, named Prescott and Jackson, the former
being a splendid animal, which, while accustomed to cannon-fire, waving
flags, or martial music, had a bad habit of dancing about and shying
when a coach, especially one containing ladies, would stop to greet the
President. The other white horse, Jackson, was an Arab, with flowing
mane and tail, but, being an impetuous and fretful animal, he was not a
favorite.

A celebrated riding-teacher used to say that he loved “to see the
general ride; his seat is so firm, his management of his mount so easy
and graceful, that I, who am a professor of horsemanship, would go to
him and _learn to ride_.”

Since his early boyhood, the only recorded fall from a horse that
Washington had was once on his return to Mount Vernon from Alexandria.
His horse on this occasion, while an easy-gaited one, was scary. When
Washington was about to mount and rise in the stirrup, the animal,
alarmed by the glare of a fire by the roadside, sprang from under his
rider, who fell heavily to the ground. Fearing that he was hurt, his
companions rushed to his assistance, but the vigorous old gentleman,
getting quickly on his feet, assured them that, though his tumble was
complete, he was unhurt. Having been only poised in his stirrup and not
yet in the saddle, he had a fall no horseman could prevent when a scary
animal sprang from under him. Vicious propensities in horses never
troubled Washington; he only required them to go along.

An amusing anecdote is told of one of Washington's secretaries,
Colonel David Humphreys. The colonel was a lively companion and a
great favorite, and on one of their rides together he challenged his
chief to jump a hedge. Always ready to accept a challenge of this
sort, Washington told him to “go ahead,” whereupon Humphreys cleared
the hedge, but landed in the ditch on the other side up to his
saddle-girth. Riding up and smiling at his mud-bespattered friend,
Washington observed, “Ah, Colonel, you are too deep for me!”

On the Mount Vernon estates, during the years of retirement from all
public office, his rides of inspection were from twelve to fourteen
miles a day, usually at a moderate pace; but being the most punctual
of men, he would, if delayed, display the horsemanship of earlier days
by a hard gallop so as to be in time for the first dinner-bell at a
quarter of three.

A last glimpse of this great man in the saddle, is as an old gentleman,
in plain drab clothes, a broad-brimmed white hat, carrying a hickory
switch, with a long-handled umbrella hung at his saddle-bow--such was
the description given of him by Mr. Custis to an elderly inquirer who
was in search of the general on a matter of business.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What is the effect of the opening quotation?

     2. Point out all the ways in which the article resembles an essay.

     3. Show that the article does not follow a strictly logical plan.

     4. Show in what respects the article differs from ordinary magazine
        articles.

     5. What characterizes the style of the article?

     6. How does the writer make the article interesting?

     7. What hints of the writer's personality does the article give?

     8. What does the article say concerning the character of
        Washington?

     9. Summarize what is said concerning Washington as a horseman.

    10. How much is said about the biography of Washington?



 [Illustration: =Colonel Humphreys landed in the ditch.=]   (_page 116_)


                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Select both a subject and a theme in which you are interested. Take
your note-book and consult encyclopedias, histories, and books of
biography, noting down everything that has relation to your particular
subject and theme. Hunt especially for interesting anecdotes; if they
are humorous,--so much the better.

You will do well to introduce your article with an appropriate
quotation. Make your writing as conversational and as anecdotal as
possible. Don't be in the least bit encyclopedic. Be gossipy.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[52] George Washington Parke Custis (1781-1857). The adopted son of
George Washington.

[53] Dr. S. Weir Mitchell (1829-1914). An American physician and
novelist. His novel, _Hugh Wynne_, concerns the life of Washington.

[54] General Charles Lee (1731-1782). An American Revolutionary General
court-martialed for disobedience at the battle of Monmouth, 1778.




                         THE HISTORICAL STORY




                           HAVELOK THE DANE
                        By GEORGE PHILIP KRAPP

    _(1872--). Professor of English in Columbia University. He is
    a member of many scholarly societies, and has written much on
    English. Among his books are_ The Elements of English Grammar; In
    Oldest England; The Rise of English Literary Prose.

  =The story of _Havelok the Dane_ is one of the oldest of English
  stories; for the story that is here told is only a re-telling
  of a narrative that originated nearly a thousand years ago. The
  first story of Havelok was probably written in Anglo-Saxon in the
  eleventh century or in the first half of the twelfth century. It
  was told in French about 1150, and re-told in English about 1300.
  Some critics find close relation between the story of Havelok and
  the story of Hamlet.=

  =In all probability there was a real Havelok who may have lived in
  the latter part of the tenth century, and who may have participated
  in events like those told in the story. It is probable that as
  stories of his romantic career were repeated they increased,--just
  as gossip increases. The facts became lost in a body of romantic
  events. The Havelok of the story is therefore a character of
  fiction.=

  =The story is interesting in many ways. First of all, it is a
  remarkably good story, very human and capable of awakening
  sympathy, full of quick event, centered around the fascinating
  subjects of youth, adventure and love, and picturesque in its
  details and episodes. Then it is an old story,--ten centuries
  old,--and is interesting as a relic of the past. In addition, it
  shows remarkably well what sort of stories preceded the short
  stories and the novels of to-day, and how the old stories sometimes
  grew from a mingling of fact and imagination.=

  =In reading the story of _Havelok the Dane_ we stand, as it were,
  in the presence of one of the story tellers of the extreme past.
  Around us we feel castle walls and the presence of rough fighting
  men. The flames of the great fireplace flare on our faces, and we
  listen with childlike interest.=


Many years ago, in the days of the Angles and Saxons, there was once a
king of England whose name was Athelwold. In that time a traveler might
bear fifty pounds of good red gold on his back throughout the length
and breadth of England, and no one would dare molest him. Robbers and
thieves were afraid to ply their calling, and all wrong-doers were
careful to keep out of the way of King Athelwold's officers. That was a
king worth while.

Now this good King Athelwold had no heir to his throne but one young
daughter, and Goldborough was her name. Unhappily, when she was just
old enough to walk, a heavy sickness fell upon King Athelwold, and he
saw that his days were numbered. He grieved greatly that his daughter
was not old enough to rule and to become queen of England after him,
and called all the lords and barons of England to come to him at
Winchester to consult concerning the welfare of his kingdom and of his
daughter.

Finally it was decided that Godrich, Earl of Cornwall, who was one
of the bravest, and, everybody said, one of the truest, men in all
England, should take charge of the child Goldborough and rule the
kingdom for her until she was old enough to be made queen. On the
Holy Book, Earl Godrich swore to be true to this trust which he had
undertaken, and he also swore, as the king commanded, that when
Goldborough reached the proper age, he would marry her to the highest,
the fairest, and the strongest man in the kingdom. When all this was
done, the king's mind was at rest, for he had the greatest faith in the
honor of Earl Godrich. It was not long thereafter that the end came.
There was great grief at the death of the good king, but Godrich ruled
in his stead and was the richest and most powerful of all the earls in
England. We shall say no more about him while Goldborough is growing
older, and in the end we shall see whether Earl Godrich was true to his
trust and to the promises he had given to Goldborough's father.

Now it happened, at this same time, that there was a king in Denmark
whose name was Birkabeyn. Three children he had, who were as dear
to him as life itself. One of these was a son of five years, and he
was called Havelok. The other two were daughters, and one was named
Swanborough and the other Elflad. Now when King Birkabeyn most wished
to live, the hand of death was suddenly laid upon him. As soon as he
realized that his days in this life were over, he looked about for some
one to take care of his three young children, and no one seemed so fit
for this office as the Earl Godard. To Godard, therefore, he intrusted
the care of his three children, and Godard faithfully promised to guard
them until the boy Havelok was old enough to become king of Denmark.

Scarcely, however, was the body of King Birkabeyn laid away in
the grave, before the faithless Godard began to plot evil, and he
determined to be himself king of Denmark. So he took Havelok and his
two sisters and cast them into prison in a great stone castle.

In this prison the poor little children almost perished from cold and
hunger, but they little knew that still worse misfortune was in store
for them. For one day Earl Godard went to the castle where they were
imprisoned, and Havelok and his sisters fell on their knees before him
and begged for mercy. “What do you want?” said Godard. “Why all this
weeping and howling?” And the children said they were very hungry. “No
one comes to give us of food and drink the half part that we need. We
are so hungry that we are well nigh dead.”

When Godard heard this, his heart was not touched, but, on the
contrary, it grew harder within him. He led the two little girls away
with him, and took away the lives of these innocent children; and he
intended to do the same with young Havelok. But the terrified boy again
fell on his knees before Godard and cried: “Have pity upon me, Earl
Godard! Here I offer homage to you. All Denmark I will give to you if
you will but let me live. I will be your man, and against you never
raise spear nor shield.”

Now when Godard heard this and when he looked down at young Havelok,
the rightful heir to the throne of Denmark, his arm grew weak, though
his heart was as hard as ever. He knew that if he was ever to become
king, Havelok must die; but he could not bring himself to the point of
taking the life of his lawful sovereign.

So he cast about in his mind for some other way to get rid of him. He
sent for a poor fisherman whose name was Grim. Now Grim was Godard's
thrall, or slave, and was bound to do whatever Godard asked of him.
When Grim had come to him, Godard said: “Thou knowest, Grim, thou art
my thrall, and must do whatever I bid thee. To-morrow thou shalt be
free and a rich man if thou wilt take this boy that I give thee and
sink him to-night deep down in the sea. All the sin I will take upon
myself.”

Grim was not a bad man, but the promise of his freedom was a sore
temptation, and besides, Godard, his master, had said that he would be
responsible for the deed. So Grim took Havelok, not knowing, of course,
who he was, and put him in a sack and carried him off to his little
cottage by the seashore, intending that night to row out to deep water
and throw him overboard.

Now when it came midnight, Grim got up from his bed, and bade his wife,
Dame Leve, bring a light for he must go out and keep his promise to
Earl Godard. But when Leve went into the other room, where Havelok was
lying bound and gagged, what was her surprise to see that there was
already a light in the room. Right over Havelok's head it seemed to
stand; but where it came from, she could not guess.

“Stir up, Grim,” she cried, “and see what this light is here in our
cot!”

And Grim came running in, and he too saw the strange light and was as
surprised as Leve had been. Then he uncovered Havelok, and there on his
right shoulder he saw a birthmark, bright and fair, and knew from this,
right away, that this boy was Havelok, the son of King Birkabeyn. When
Grim realized this, he fell on his knees before Havelok and said, “Have
mercy on me and on Leve, my wife, here by me! For thou art our rightful
king and therefore in everything we should serve thee.” Then when Grim
had unbound him and had taken the gag out of his mouth, Havelok was a
happy boy again; and the first thing he asked for was something to eat.
And Dame Leve brought bread and cheese, and butter and milk and cookies
and cakes, and for the first time in many a long day Havelok had all he
wanted to eat. Then when Havelok had satisfied his hunger, Grim made a
good bed for him and told him to go to sleep and to fear nothing.

Now the next morning, Grim went to the wicked traitor Godard and
claimed his reward. But little he knew the faithlessness of Godard.

“What!” cried Godard, “wilt thou now be an earl? Go home, and be as
thou wert before, a thrall and a churl. If I ever hear of this again,
I will have thee led to the gallows, for thou hast done a wicked deed.
Home with you, and keep out of my way, if you know what is good for
you!”

When Grim saw this new proof of the wickedness of Earl Godard, he
ran home as fast as he could. He knew that his life was not safe in
Godard's hands, especially if the earl should ever find out that
Havelok was still alive. Grim had hoped to get money from Earl Godard
with which to escape to some other country, but now he saw that he
would have to depend on his own means. Secretly he sold all that he had
and when he had got the ready money for it, he bought him a ship and
painted it with tar and pitch, and fitted it out with cables and oars
and a mast and sail. Not a nail was lacking that a good ship should
have. Last of all Grim put in this ship his good wife Dame Leve, and
his three sons and two daughters and Havelok, and off they sailed to
the open ocean. They had not been sailing very long, however, before a
wind came out of the north and drove them toward England. At the river
Humber they finally reached land, and there on the sand near Lindesey,
Grim drew his ship up on the shore. A little cot he straightway built
for his family; and since this was Grim's home, the town that gradually
grew up there in later days came to be named Grimsby, and if you will
look on the map, you will find that so it is called to this very day.

Now Grim was a very good fisherman, and he decided to make his living
here in England by fishing. Many a good fish he took from the sea, with
net and spear and hook. He had four large baskets made, one for himself
and one for each of his three sons, and when they had caught their
fish, off they carried them to the people in the towns and country,
to sell them. Sometimes they went as far inland as the good town of
Lincoln.

Thus they lived peacefully and happily for ten years or more, and
by this time Havelok was become a youth full grown. But Grim never
told Havelok who he was, nor did he tell any of his three sons or two
daughters. And Havelok soon entirely forgot all about what had happened
to him in Denmark. And so he grew up, happy as the days were long,
and astonishingly healthy and strong. He was big of bone and broad of
shoulder and the equal of a man in strength.

Now after a time, Havelok began to think to himself that Grim was
working very hard to make a living, while he was amusing himself in
ease and idleness. “Surely,” said he to himself, “I am no longer a
boy. I am big and strong, and alone I eat more than Grim and his five
children. It's high time for me to bear baskets and work for my living.
No longer will I stay at home, but to-morrow I too shall go forth and
sell fish.” And so in the morning, as soon as it was light of day, he
put a basket on his back, as the others did, piled high with fish, as
much as a good strong man might carry. But Havelok bore the burden
well, and he sold the fish well, and the money he brought back home
to Grim, every penny of it. Thus Havelok became a fisherman; he went
forth every day with his basket on his back and sold fish, and was the
tallest and strongest monger of them all.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Now it happened after a time that Grim fared not so well With his
fishing. The fish would not come to his nets, and with no fish in the
nets, there was none for the baskets and for market. To make matters
worse, at this same time there was a great famine in the land, and poor
people suffered greatly from lack of food to eat. These were hard times
for Grim and his houseful of children. Yet less for his own did Grim
grieve than for the sturdy Havelok. Moreover, Grim had long thought
that this work of fishing and fish-selling, though good enough for
himself and his three sons, was hardly the right life for Havelok, who,
though he knew nothing about it, was nevertheless a king's son.

“Havelok, my boy,” said he, at length, “it is not well for thee to
dwell here too long with us. Though it will grieve us sorely to have
thee go, out into the world thou must venture, and perhaps there
thou shalt make thy fortune. Here thou seest we are but miserable
fisher-folk; but at Lincoln, the fine city, there thou mayst find some
great man whom thou canst serve. But, alas!” he added, “so poor are we
that thou hast not even a coat wherein to go.”

Then Grim took down the shears from the nail and made Havelok a coat
out of the sail to his boat, and this was Grim's last gift to Havelok.
No hose and no shoes had Havelok to wear, but barefoot and naked,
except for his long coat of sail-cloth, he left his good friends Grim
and Dame Leve and their five children and set out for the town of
Lincoln.

When Havelok reached Lincoln, he wandered about bewildered in the
streets of the city. But nobody seemed to have any use for him; nobody
wanted to exchange the strength of his powerful arms for food to eat.
As he wandered from one street to another, Havelok grew hungrier and
hungrier. By great good chance, however, he passed by the bridge where
the market was, and there stood a great earl's cook, who was buying
fish and meat and other food for the earl's table. Now he had just
finished buying when Havelok happened along, and the cook shouted,
“Porter, porter!” for somebody to come to carry his marketing home.
Instantly ten or a dozen jumped for the chance, for there were plenty
of men looking for work in Lincoln. But Havelok got ahead of them all;
he pushed them this way and that and sent them sprawling head over
heels, and seized hold of the cook's baskets, without so much as a “By
your leave.” Rough and ready was the young Havelok, as strong as a bear
and as hungry as a savage. He made quick time of the journey to the
cook's kitchen, and there he was well fed as pay for his labor.

By the next day, however, Havelok's stomach was again empty. But he
knew the time at which the earl's cook came to the market, and he
waited there for him. Again when the cook had finished buying, he
called out “Porter, porter!” and again the husky Havelok shoved the
rest right and left and carried off the cook's baskets. He spared
neither toes nor heels until he came to the earl's castle and had put
down his burden in the kitchen.

Then the cook, whose name was Bertram, stood there and looked at
Havelok and laughed. “This is certainly a stalwart fellow enough,” he
thought. “Will you stay with me?” he said finally to Havelok. “I will
feed you well, and well you seem to be able to pay for your feeding.”

And Havelok was glad enough to take the offer. “Give me but enough to
eat,” he answered, “and I will build your fires and carry your water,
and I can make split sticks to skin eels with, and cut wood and wash
dishes, and do anything you want me to do.”

The cook told Havelok to sit down and eat as much as he wanted, and you
can be sure Havelok was not slow in accepting this invitation. When
he had satisfied his hunger, Havelok went out and filled a large tub
of water for the kitchen, and, to the cook's great astonishment, he
carried it in, without any help, in his own two hands. Such a cook's
knave had never been seen in that kitchen before!

So Havelok became a kitchen-boy in a great earl's castle. He was always
gay and laughing, blithe of speech and obliging, for he was young and
thoughtless and healthy, and happy so long as he had something to put
into his stomach. He played with the children and they all loved him,
for, with all his great strength and stature, he was as gentle as the
gentlest child among them. And Bertram, the cook, seeing that Havelok
had nothing to wear except his old sail-cloth coat that Grim had made
for him, bought Havelok a brand-new coat and hose and shoes; and when
Havelok was dressed up in his new clothes, there was not a finer fellow
in the whole country. He stood head and shoulders above the rest when
the youths came together for their games at Lincoln, and no one ever
tried a round at wrestling with Havelok without being thrown almost
before he knew it. He was the tallest and strongest man in all that
region, and, what was better, he was as good and gentle as he was
strong.

Now, as it happened, the earl in whose kitchen Havelok served as
kitchen-boy to Bertram the cook was that very Earl Godrich to whom old
King Athelwold had entrusted his daughter, Goldborough, for protection.
Goldborough was now a beautiful young princess, and Godrich realized
that something must soon be done for her. But Godrich had become the
strongest baron in all England; and though he had not forgotten his
promises to Athelwold, little did he think to let the power, to which
he had grown so accustomed, pass into the hands of another. For though
the beautiful Goldborough was now old enough to be made queen, the
traitorous Godrich had decided in his heart that queen she should never
be, but that when he died, his son should be made king after him.

Just about this time it happened that Earl Godrich summoned a great
parliament of all the nobles of England to meet at Lincoln. When the
parliament met, there was a great throng of people there from all over
England, and the bustling city was very gay and lively. Many young men
came thither with their elders, bent on having a good time, strong
lads fond of wrestling and other such games. Now these young men were
amusing themselves one day in one way and another, and finally they
began to “put the stone.” The stone was big and heavy, and it was not
every man who could lift it even as high as his knees. But these strong
fellows who had come to Lincoln in the train of the mighty barons could
lift it up and put it a dozen or more feet in front of them; and the
one who put it the farthest, if it was only an inch ahead of the rest,
he was counted the champion at putting the stone.

Now these stout lads were standing around and boasting about the best
throws, and Havelok stood by listening. He knew nothing about putting
the stone, for he had never done it or seen it done before. But his
master, Bertram the cook, was also there, and he insisted that Havelok
should have a try at it. So Havelok took up the great stone, and at the
first throw, he put it a foot and more beyond the best throw of the
others.

The news of Havelok's record throw in some way spread abroad, how he
had beaten all these strong lads, and how tall and powerful he was. And
finally the knights in the great hall of the castle began speaking of
it, and Earl Godrich listened, for he had suddenly thought of a way to
keep his promise. In a word, it was this: King Athelwold had made him
swear on the Holy Book that he would give his daughter in marriage to
the highest and strongest in the realm of England. Now where could he
find a higher and stronger than this Havelok? He would marry the king's
daughter to this kitchen-boy, and thus, though in a way that the old
king never dreamed of, he would keep his promise and still leave the
road free for himself and his son after him.

Godrich straightway sent for Goldborough, and told her that he had
found a husband for her, the tallest and fairest man in all England.
And Goldborough answered that no man should wed her unless he was a
king or a king's heir.

At this Godrich grew very angry. “Thou shalt marry whom I please!”
he commanded. “Dost thou think thou shalt be queen and lady over me?
I will choose a husband for thee. To-morrow shalt thou wed my cook's
kitchen-boy and none other, and he shall be lord over thee.”

Goldborough wept and prayed; but she could not turn Godrich from his
shameful purpose.

Then Godrich sent for Havelok, and when he had come before him, he
said, “Fellow, do you want a wife?”

“Nay, truly,” said Havelok, “no wife for me! What should I do with a
wife? I have neither clothing nor shoes nor food for her, neither house
nor home to put her in. I own not a stick in the world, and even the
coat I bear on my back belongs to Bertram the cook.”

But Godrich told Havelok he must marry the wife he had chosen for him,
willy-nilly, or he should suffer for it. And finally Havelok, for
fear of his life, consented, and Goldborough was sent for, and the
Archbishop of York came, and soon they were married, one as unwilling
as the other.

But when the wedding was over, and gifts had been given to Goldborough,
rich and plenty, Havelok was perplexed. He beheld the beauty of
Goldborough and was afraid to remain at Godrich's castle for fear of
treachery that might befall her. For Goldborough now had only Havelok
to protect her, since the kitchen-boy had become her lord and master,
and Havelok, with a man's courage, determined to defend her to the best
of his ability. The first thing to do, as it seemed to him, was to go
back to Grim's cottage, there to think over the matter carefully before
acting further. And straightway, in company with Goldborough, he set
out secretly for the little cot by the seashore.

                   *       *       *       *       *

When Havelok and Goldborough came to Grim's house, he found that
there had been many sad changes during the time he had been living
in Lincoln. In the first place, the good Grim had died, and also his
wife, Dame Leve. But the three sons of Grim and his two daughters were
still living at Grimsby, and they still caught the fish of the sea and
carried them about in baskets to sell them. The oldest of these sons
was called Robert the Red, and, of the remaining two, one was named
William Wendout, and Hugh the Raven the other. They were filled with
joy when they found that their foster-brother, Havelok, had come back
to them, and they prepared a fine dinner for him and Goldborough. And
Robert the Red begged Havelok now to stay with them at Grimsby and be
their chief and leader. They promised to serve him faithfully, and
their two sisters were eager to care for all the needs of Goldborough,
his wife. But for the time being, Havelok put them off, for he had not
yet decided what would be the best course for him to follow.

Now that night, as Goldborough lay awake, sad and sorrowful, she was
suddenly aware of a bright light, surrounding, as it seemed, the head
of the sleeping Havelok. Then at the same time, there came a voice, she
could not tell whence, which said to her: “Goldborough, be no longer
sorrowful, for Havelok, who hath wedded thee, is a king's son and heir.
Upon his shoulder he bears a royal birthmark to prove it. The day shall
come when he will be king both in Denmark and in England, and thou
shalt be of both realms queen and lady.”

Now just at this same time, Havelok dreamed a strange dream; and when
he awoke, he told his dream to Goldborough. He dreamed that he was
sitting on a high hill in Denmark, and when he stretched out his arms,
they were so long that they reached to the farthest limits of the
land; and when he drew his arms together to his breast, everything in
Denmark, all the towns, and the country, and the lordly castles, all
cleaved to his arms and were drawn into his embrace. Then he dreamed
that he passed over the salt sea with a great host of Danish warriors
to England, and that all England likewise came into his power.

When Goldborough heard this dream, she thought straightway of the
strange light she had seen over Havelok's head and the voice that she
had heard, and she interpreted it to mean that Havelok should be king
over Denmark and afterward over England.

She knew not how this should come to pass, but unhesitatingly advised
Havelok to prepare to set sail for Denmark. Her plan was this: that
they should buy a ship, and take Grim's three sons, Robert the Red,
William Wendout, and Hugh the Raven, with them, and, when they came to
Denmark, pretend that they were merchants until they could find out
what course to follow. And when this plan was told to the three sons
of Grim, they immediately agreed to it, for they were ready to follow
Havelok wherever he went. And now, also, Havelok for the first time
learned who his father was, and that he was really heir to the throne
of Denmark. For Grim, before he left Denmark, had told all of Havelok's
story to a cousin of his, and she now, for she was still alive and had
come to stay with Grim's family at Grimsby, told Havelok all about Earl
Godard's treachery. Happy indeed was Goldborough when she heard this
story, and they were all more anxious than ever to set out for Denmark.
They got a good ship ready, and it was not long before all were well on
their way.

When the ship reached Denmark, they all went up on land and journeyed
forth until they came to the castle of the great Danish baron, Earl
Ubbe. Now Ubbe had been a good friend of Havelok's father, the former
King Birkabeyn, and a good man and true was he. When they reached
Ubbe's castle, Havelok sent word that they were merchants, come to
trade in Ubbe's country, and, as a present, he sent in to Ubbe a gold
ring with a precious stone in the setting.

When Ubbe had received this generous gift, he sent for Havelok to
come to see him. When the young man came, Ubbe was greatly struck by
Havelok's broad shoulders and sturdy frame, and he said to himself:
“What a pity that this chapman is not a knight! He seems better
fitted to wear a helmet on his head and bear a shield and spear than
to buy and sell wares.” But he said nothing of this to Havelok, and
only invited him to come and dine in the castle and to bring his
wife, Goldborough, with him. And Ubbe promised that no dishonor
should be done either to one or the other, and pledged himself as
their protector. And when the dinner was over, Ubbe, who had taken a
great liking to both Havelok and Goldborough, entrusted them to the
safe-keeping of one of his retainers, a stout and doughty warrior whose
name was Bernard the Brown. To Bernard's house, therefore, Havelok and
Goldborough went, and there too were lodged Robert the Red and William
Wendout and Hugh the Raven.

Now when they had reached Bernard's house, and Bernard and Havelok and
Goldborough were sitting there peacefully at supper, the house was
suddenly attacked by a band of fierce robbers. Travelers were not as
safe in Denmark as they were in England in the days of the strong King
Athelwold, and these robbers, thinking that Havelok must be a very
rich man, since he had given so valuable a ring to the Earl Ubbe, were
come now, a greedy gang, to see if they could get hold of some of his
treasure. Before Bernard and his guests were aware of them, the robbers
had reached the door, and they shouted to Bernard to let them in or
they would kill him. But the valiant Bernard recalled that his guests
were in his safe-keeping; and shouting back that the robbers would
have to get in before they could kill him, he jumped up and put on his
coat of mail and seized an ax and leaped to the doorway. Already the
robbers were battering at the door, and they took a huge boulder and
let it fly against the door, so that it shivered to splinters. Then
Havelok mixed in the fray. He seized a heavy wooden door-tree, which
was used to bar the door, and when the robbers tried to break through
the door, he laid on right and left. It was not long before Robert and
William and Hugh, in the other part of the house, heard the din and
came rushing up; and then the fight was on, fast and furious. Robert
seized an oar and William and Hugh had great clubs, and these, with
Bernard's ax and Havelok's door-tree, made it lively enough for the
robbers. But especially Havelok and his door-tree made themselves felt
there. The robbers, for all they were well armed with shields and good
long swords, were compelled to give way before the flail-like strokes
of Havelok's door-tree. When they saw their comrades falling right and
left, those that were still able to do so took to their legs and ran
away. Some harm they did, however, while the fray lasted, for Havelok
had a severe sword-wound in his side, and from several other gashes the
blood was flowing freely.

In the morning, when Bernard the Brown told Ubbe of the attacks of the
robbers, Ubbe swore that he would bring them to punishment; and he also
took further measures to protect Havelok. When he heard that Havelok
was wounded, he had him brought to his own castle and gave him a room
right next to his own.

Now that night, when Havelok lay asleep in his room and Ubbe in the
room next to it, about the middle of the night Ubbe was awakened, and
thought he saw a light on the other side of the door. “What's this?” he
said to himself. “What mischief are they up to in there?” And he got up
to see if everything was all right with his new friend the chapman.

Now when Ubbe peeped through a crack in the door, he saw a strange
sight. For there was Havelok peacefully sleeping, and over his head
there gleamed the miraculous light that Goldborough had seen and that
had caused Grim to spare his life when he was a little child. And
looking closer, Ubbe saw something more. For the cover was thrown
back, and he saw on Havelok's shoulder the royal birthmark, and he
knew immediately that this was the son of his old friend and king,
Birkabeyn, and the rightful heir to the throne of Denmark. Eagerly he
broke open the door and ran in and fell on his knees beside Havelok,
acknowledging him as his lawful lord.

As soon as Havelok realized that he was not dreaming, he saw that good
fortune had at last put him in the way of winning back his rights.

And it had indeed, for Ubbe immediately set to work getting together
an army for Havelok. It was not long before Havelok had a fine body of
fighters ready to follow wherever he led them, and then he thought it
was time to seek out his old enemy, Earl Godard. Before this, however,
there was another thing to be done, and that was to make knights of
Robert and William and Hugh. They were given the stroke on the shoulder
with the flat of the sword by Earl Ubbe and thus were dubbed knights.
They were granted land and other fee, and they became as brave and
powerful barons as any in Denmark.

When Havelok had his plans all made, he set out to find Earl Godard. It
was Robert the Red who had the good fortune first to meet with him. But
Godard was no coward, and was not to be taken without struggle for his
freedom. He defended himself as best he could, but his followers soon
became frightened and took to their heels, leaving the wretched Godard
a helpless prisoner in the hands of Robert. Havelok was glad enough
to have Godard in his power at last, but he made no effort to punish
Godard for the injuries he had done to him personally. It was as a
traitor to his king and his country that Godard was now held prisoner.
When the time of the trial came, by the judgment of his peers, Godard
was convicted of treason and sentence of death was passed upon him.

When peace had again been restored throughout Denmark, then the
people all joyfully accepted Havelok as their king and the beautiful
Goldborough as their queen.

One thing still remained for Havelok to do in England after affairs had
all been settled in Denmark--there still remained an accounting with
Earl Godrich. And so, as soon as he had got his army together, Havelok
and Goldborough went on board ship and sailed over the sea, and soon
they were again back at Grimsby. The earl was ready for him, too, for
he had heard of Havelok's arrival in England, and he thought he could
make quick work of his former kitchen-boy. But Havelok the man, with
a Danish army at his back, was a quite different person from Havelok
the boy, who carried the cook's baskets from market and distinguished
himself only by his record at putting the stone. And this difference
Earl Godrich was soon to discover.

It was Ubbe, this time, who had the first meeting with Godrich. Ubbe
claimed Godrich as his prisoner, but Godrich immediately drew his
sword in self-defense. They fought long and fiercely, and Godrich was
decidedly getting the better of it, when Havelok fortunately appeared
upon the scene. Havelok demanded that Godrich should yield himself as
his prisoner, but for answer Godrich only rushed at Havelok all the
more fiercely with his drawn sword, and so violent was his attack, that
he succeeded in wounding Havelok. At this, Havelok's patience gave out,
and exerting all his powerful strength, in a short time he overcame
Godrich and disarmed him and bound him hand and foot. Then Havelok had
Godrich carried before a jury of his peers in England, where he was
made to answer to the charge of treason, just as Godard had been made
to do in Denmark.

All the English barons acknowledged that Goldborough was their true
queen, and that Godrich was a tyrant and usurper. And since not only
plain justice, but also the welfare of the kingdom, demanded it, the
barons passed the sentence of death upon the traitorous Earl Godrich.
With much feasting and celebration, Havelok and Goldborough were taken
in triumph to London, and there were crowned king and queen of England.
Thus Goldborough's dream had come to pass, for she was now queen and
lady and Havelok was lord and king over both Denmark and England.

But since Havelok could not be in both countries at one time, and
since his Danish friends were eager to get back again to Denmark, now
that their work in England was finished, Havelok made Ubbe ruler over
Denmark in his place, and he remained in England. Moreover there were
other old friends who were also richly deserving of reward. Of these,
one was Bertram the cook, Havelok's former master, who had fed him when
he was starving. Bertram was made a rich baron, and he was married to
one of Grim's daughters, who were still living at Grimsby, but who, of
course, had now become great ladies. The other daughter was married to
Reynes, Earl of Chester, who was a brave young bachelor and glad enough
to get so beautiful and so highly favored a wife as Havelok gave him.
Robert the Red and William Wendout and Hugh the Raven all remained
in England, where they married rich and beautiful wives, and became
Havelok's right-hand men in the good government of the country.

And you can be sure the country was now again well governed. As in
the days of the good King Athelwold, a traveler might bear a bag full
of red gold on his shoulder from one end of England to the other, and
be as safe as though he were guarded by an army of soldiers. Loved
by their subjects and feared by their enemies, thus in peace and
contentment King Havelok and Queen Goldborough dwelt together many a
long year in England, and their children grew up around them. They had
passed through their trials and tribulations, and at last only good
days were in store for them.

This is the end.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What advantage does the author gain by using a somewhat archaic
        style?

     2. Why does he tell the story with almost the same simplicity that
        marks the original story?

     3. What events show the character of Havelok?

     4. What is the character of Grim?

     5. What is the character of Goldborough?

     6. In what respects are Earl Godrich and Earl Godard alike?

     7. Show that the story is like some of the familiar nursery
        legends.

     8. Outline the principal events of the narrative.

     9. Which events are most impressive?

    10. Point out local allusions in the story.

    11. In what respects is Havelok truly royal?

    12. Point out any uses of the supernatural.

    13. Is Bertram a realistic or a romantic character?

    14. Point out exceedingly human touches in the story.

    15. Point out the emphasis of noble characteristics.

    16. Show how description adds to the effectiveness of the story.

    17. Show how the story resembles other stories you have read.

    18. What reasons have made the story live for a thousand years?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

You are to re-tell an old story. Select one with which you are
entirely familiar. Tell it very simply and plainly, but try very hard
to give it the quality of human interest. Make your readers sympathize
with your hero and heroine. Tell a number of dramatic
episodes, selecting those that do most to emphasize character. Make
your story move very quickly, and make its action very vivid and
intense. Give emphasis to good characteristics.




                            THE STORY ESSAY




                          POLITICS UP TO DATE
                       By FREDERICK LEWIS ALLEN

    _(1890-). A contributor to many magazines. At different times he
    served as Instructor in English at Harvard, and as a member of the
    editorial staff of_ The Atlantic Monthly, _and of_ The Century.

  =The short story and the essay may be combined in what may be called
  the story-essay or the dialogue-essay. Many of Addison's _Sir Roger
  de Coverley_ essays illustrate such a combination.=

  =_Politics Up To Date_ is really a critical essay, directed against
  certain tendencies in political campaigns in the United States,
  but it is presented in the form of a dialogue between a young
  politician and an old politician. It is very effective in its
  satire.=


“So you've come to me for advice, have you?” said the Old Politician to
the Young Politician. “You want to know how to succeed in politics, do
you?”

The Young Politician inclined his head.

“I do,” he replied. “Will you tell me?”

The Old Politician was silent for a moment.

“Times change,” he said at last, “and I dare say there are new issues
now in politics that there weren't in the good old days. The technic is
somewhat different, too. However, the basic principles remain the same,
and, after all, the issues don't really matter; it's what you say about
them that counts, and I can tell you what to say about them. Very well,
I'll advise you. First of all, if you're running for office in these
days, you must run as a hundred-per-cent. American candidate.”

The Young Politician's eye clouded with perplexity.

“What is Americanism,” he asked, “and how does one figure it on a
percentage basis?”

The Old Politician brought down his fist on the table with a crash.

“You aspire to political office, and ask questions like that!” he
exclaimed in a voice of wrath. “Never question what hundred-per-cent.
Americanism is, even to yourself. If you do, somebody else will
question, too. Nothing could be more fatal. Don't try to define
it; assert it. Say you're hundred per cent. and your opponent
isn't. Intimate that if George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and
Abraham Lincoln went over your opponent with a slide rule and an
adding-machine, they couldn't make him add up to more than ninety-nine
per cent. If he's out for a seven-cent fare or a new set of municipal
waterworks, tell the people that such things are un-American. Say that
he's dodging the issue, and the issue is Americanism.” He paused. “If
you were my opponent, and asked what Americanism is, I'd double you up.
'Think of it, my fellow-citizens! He doesn't even know what Americanism
is! Is that the kind of man to hold office in the country of Washington
and Lincoln?'”

The Young Politician looked round uneasily to make sure that they were
indeed alone, for the Old Politician was almost shouting.

“Please,” said the Young Politician, “not so loud. I won't ask that
question again. I see your point. What else do you advise?”

“You must learn,” continued the Old Politician, “to be a good
denouncer.”

“A good what?”

“Denouncer. Keep your eyes open for objects of popular disapproval,
and when you're sure you've got hold of something that is heartily
disapproved by the great majority of the people, denounce it. At
present I should advise you to denounce the high cost of living, the
profiteers, and the Bolshevists. Next year, of course, the list may be
quite different, but for the present those three are the best objects
of denunciation.”

“What bothers me,” suggested the Young Politician in a hesitating
voice, “is that it may be rather hard to drag those things into the
campaign. Suppose, for example, I'm pledged to broaden the Main Street
of the city upon my election to the city council. Won't it be rather
hard to tie the Main Street and the Bolshevists together?”

The Old Politician looked upon the troubled face of the Young
Politician with disgust.

“You're a great politician, you are,” he said wearily. “Tie them
together? Don't be so ridiculously logical.” He rose to his feet, and
as he did so he smote the table once more with his fist. “Gen-tle-men,”
he cried hoarsely, surveying an imaginary audience with his glittering
eye, “there is a movement on foot in this very county, this very State,
nay, this very city, to undermine our Congress, to topple over the
Constitution, to put a bomb under our President! Confronted by such a
menace to our democratic institutions, what, gentlemen, shall be our
answer? Let us broaden Main Street, as Washington would have broadened
it, as Lincoln would have broadened it, and let us put down the red
flag wherever it shows its head!”

“Its mast,” corrected the Young Politician, visibly moved. “Thank you
for those courageous, those hundred-per-cent. words. I shall try to
strike that note. But there is something else I want to ask. Suppose
I am elected. What shall I do while I hold office in order that I may
become ultimately eligible for still higher office?”

“In that case,” replied the old man, who by this time had subsided into
his chair, “you must not merely denounce the high cost of living, the
profiteers, and the Bolshevists; you must campaign against them.”

“But suppose I am a commissioner of roads or an attorney-general,”
queried the Young Politician. “In that case, clearly such things lie
outside my province. How can I campaign against them?”

“My dear young man,” said the Old Politician, with a weary smile,
“don't bother about your province, as you call it. Your job will
undoubtedly be uninteresting and the public won't know anything about
it or care anything about it, and the test of your success will be
your ability to conduct campaigns which have nothing to do with your
job, and therefore stand some chance of interesting the public. There
is no reason why even an attorney-general shouldn't campaign against
anything, provided he handle his campaign right.

“The principal thing to bear in mind is that you must begin your
campaigns noisily and end them so quietly that the sound of their
ending is drowned in the noise of the next campaign's beginning. Let's
say you begin with a campaign against the high cost of living. First
come out with a statement that you, as attorney-general or commissioner
of roads or what not, are going to knock the high cost of living to
bits, and the whole force of the Government will be behind you. That
will put you on the front page once. Then send out telegrams calling
a conference to take steps against the cost of living. That will put
you on the front page again. Then when the conference meets, address
them, and tell them they've got to make conditions better, simply got
to. By the way, you ought to have a couple of able secretaries to help
you with these speeches, or, better still, to do the routine work of
your office so that there will be nothing to divert your mind from your
campaigns. Then, after you have the conference well started, step out.
Don't stay with them; they may begin asking you for constructive ideas.
Step clear of the thing, and start a new campaign.

“I can't over-emphasize the fact that when the conference is well
started, you must help the public to forget about it, and stir up
interest in something new. Flay the profiteer for a month or two,
and get a conference going on profiteers. Rap the Bolshevists, and
telegraph for a crowd of citizens to come and probe the Bolshevists
while you're deciding what your next campaign shall be. Don't let the
people's minds run back to the high cost of living, or they'll be
likely to notice that it hasn't gone down. Refer constantly to the
success of your own campaigns, and keep the public mind moving.”

The Young Politician was visibly impressed, but apparently a doubt
still lingered in his mind.

“There's one thing I'm afraid I don't quite understand,” he said at
last. “All this denouncing and rapping and probing--isn't it likely
to look rather destructive? Will people want to vote for a man whose
pleasantest mood is one of indignation?”

“My dear young man,” replied the Old Politician, “I fear that you
misunderstood me. A politician must be always pleasant to the people
who are about him, and denounce only persons who are not present. You
should compliment your audience when speaking. Be sure to make the
right speech in the right place; don't get off your profiteer speech to
the Merchants' Association, or they may begin to wonder whether they
agree with you, but draw their hearts to yours with your anti-Bolshevik
speech; assure them that you and they are going to save the nation from
red ruin. Denunciation is pleasant if it's somebody else who is getting
denounced. Tell the merchants or the newspaper publishers or the party
committeemen, or whoever it is that you are addressing, that they are
the most important element in the community and that the war could not
have been won if they had not stepped forward to a man and done their
duty. That's good to hear.

“Finally, give them a little patriotic rapture. Tell them this is
a new age we're in. Picture to them the capitalist and working-man
walking hand in hand with their eyes on the flag. Make the great heart
of America throb for them. Unpleasant? Why, if you top off with a
heart-throb, you can make the most denunciatory speech delightful for
one and all.”

The Young Politician rose.

“I see,” he said. “Thank you. Have you any other advice?”

“Merely one or two minor hints,” said the Old Politician. “If the
photographers want to take your picture teaching your baby to walk, let
them do it; the public loves the home life of its leader. Always be
affable to the reporters, but never state your views explicitly, or you
may find them embarrassing at some later date. Stick to generalities.
I think that's all.”

“Thank you again,” said the Young Politician, putting out his hand.
“You are very good. You're--” An idea seemed to seize his mind, and
his bearing perceptibly altered. “You, sir, are a good American. I'm
always delighted to have an evening with a man who is absolutely
one-hundred-per-cent. patriotic American to the core.”

“Good night,” said the Old Politician. “You're getting it very nicely.
I think you'll do well.”


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What advantage is gained by presenting the thought through the
        medium of dialogue?

     2. What is the character of the Old Politician?

     3. Explain the writer's satire of the use of “Americanism.”

     4. What are the Old Politician's principles concerning
        denunciation?

     5. What are the writer's principles?

     6. In what ways does the writer satirize the American public?

     7. How does the writer satirize political campaigns?

     8. How does the writer satirize hypocrisy in political life?

     9. How would the writer have a political campaign conducted?

    10. How would the writer have an office holder act?




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Think of a series of principles in which you strongly believe.
Imagine two people who will represent definite attitudes toward the
principles that you have in mind. Write a dialogue between the
two people, presenting your real thought in the disguise of satire.
Let your work represent both the beginning and the ending of the
conversation. As in all other writing, make the ending effective.




                                 FREE!
                        By CHARLES HANSON TOWNE

    _(1877--). Managing editor of_ McClure's Magazine. _He has written
    many delightful books, among which are:_ The Quiet Singer, and
    Other Poems; Jolly Jaunts with Jim; Autumn Loiterers; Shaking Hands
    with England.

  =Over two hundred years ago Joseph Addison imagined a character
  whom he called “The Spectator” meeting with various friends and
  discussing with them the life of the times. Through what was said
  by these imaginary beings Addison gave his own shrewd comments on
  foibles and follies. Mr. Towne's “young-old philosopher” is a sort
  of modern “Spectator.” He talks of the drudgery of work, and the
  glowing joy of a holiday, and comes to the sudden realization that
  the world is a world of work in which every one must play his part
  if he is to have real contentment. The essay is Mr. Towne's comment
  both on a life of unvaried drudgery and on a life of idleness.=

  =“I have wondered what it would seem like to be ... jogging along
  with nowhere to go save where one pleased.”=


The young-old philosopher was speaking.

“I had a strange experience yesterday. To have spent twenty years or so
at office work, and then suddenly to arrange one's affairs so that a
portion of the week became one's own--that is an experience, isn't it?”

We admitted that it was an achievement to be envied.

“How did you manage it?” was the natural question.

“That is a detail of little importance,” he replied. “Let the fact of
one's sudden liberty be the point dwelt upon. I found myself walking
up the avenue at the miraculous hour of eleven in the morning, and not
going to a desk! I was headed for the park, where I knew the trees had
long since loaded their branches with leaves, and the grass was so
green that it made the heart ache with its loveliness. You know how
perfect yesterday was, a summer day to remember and to be grateful for.

“To you who have never known what it is to drudge day in and day out,
this may seem a trifling thing to speak of. For myself, a miracle
had happened. I could not believe that this golden hour was mine
completely. I had never seen shop-windows with quite this slant of the
sun on them. Always I had viewed them early or late, or wistfully at
noon, when the streets were so crowded with other escaped office men
that I could take no pleasure in what I beheld. Shop-windows at eleven
in the morning were for the elect of the earth. That hour had always
heretofore meant for me a manuscript to be read or edited, a conference
to be attended, a telephone call to be answered, a visit from some one
seeking advice--something, at any rate, that made it impossible for me
to call it my own. I have looked often from a high window at that hour,
and seen the people in the streets as they trailed like ribbons round
and round the vast city, and I have wondered what it would seem like
to be one of them, not hurrying on some commercial errand, but jogging
along with nowhere to go save where one pleased.

“At last my dream had come true, and when I found myself projected upon
that thrilling avenue, and realized that I had nothing, absolutely
nothing, to do until luncheon-time, and I could skip that if I wished,
I could scarcely believe that it was I who had thus broken the traces.

“The green of the park greeted me, and, like Raleigh's cloak,[55] a
gay pattern of flowers was laid at the entrance for even my unworthy
feet metaphorically to tread. And to think that these bright blooms
unfolded here day after day and I had so seldom seen them! An old man
dozed on a bench near at hand, oblivious to the beauty around him; and
a septuagenarian gardener leaned over the circular border, just as
Narcissus[56] looked into the pool. Perhaps he saw some image of his
youth in the uplifted face of a flower.

“I know that I saw paths and byways everywhere that reminded me of
my vanished boyhood; for I am one of those who have always lived in
Manhattan, and some of the happiest days I ever spent were those in
the park as a child, seeing the menagerie, feeding the squirrels, and
rolling a hoop on a graveled pathway.

“I remembered Rossetti's line,[57] 'I have been here before,' as I
walked along on this exultant morning; and it indeed seemed as if
in some previous incarnation, and not in this life, I had known my
footsteps to take this perfumed way. For in the hurry of life and
in the rush of our modern days we forget too soon the leisure of
childhood, plunging as we do into the rough-and-tumble of an agonized
manhood.

“And all this was while the park, like a green island set in a
throbbing sea, had waited for me to come back to it! No lake isle of
Innesfree[58] could have beguiled the poet more. Anchored at a desk,
I had dreamed often of such an hour of freedom; and now that it was
really mine, I determined that I would not analyze it, but that I would
simply drink in its wonder. It would have been as criminal as to pluck
a flower apart.

“Policemen went their weary rounds, swinging their sticks, and it
suddenly came to me that even in this sylvan retreat there was stern
labor to be done. Just as some one, some time, must sweep out a
shrine,--possibly nowadays with a vacuum-cleaner!--so papers must be
picked from God's grass, and pick-pockets must be diligently looked
for in holiday crowds. Men on high and practical sprinkling-carts must
keep the roadways clean, and emissaries of the law must see to it
that motorists do not speed too fast. You think of ice-cream as being
miraculously made in a park pavilion, and unless you visit the city
woodland at the hour of eleven or so in the morning, you may keep your
dream. But I beheld a common ice-wagon back up to the door of that
cherished house of my childhood, and a strong, rough fellow proved
himself the connecting-link between the waitress and her eager little
customers.

“At this hour it was as though I had gone behind the scenes of a
theater while the stage-hands were busy about their necessary labors.
Wiring had to be done,--I had forgotten that they have telephones even
in the park,--and a mason was repairing a crumbling wall. How much
better to let it crumble, I thought. But all my practicality, through
my sense of strange freedom, had left me, and I was ardent for a mad,
glad world, where for a long time there would be nothing for anybody
to do. I wanted masons and policemen and icemen and nurse-maids and
electricians and keepers of zoölogical gardens to be as free as I,
forever and ever.

“You see, my unexpected holiday had gone to my head, and it was a
summer morning, and I felt somehow that I ought to be working rather
than loitering here.

“I suppose I shall be sane to-morrow, but I wonder if I want to be.”

And we all wondered if we didn't like him better when he was just this
way, a child with a new toy, or, rather, a child with an old toy that
he had almost but not quite forgotten how to play with.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What advantage does the essayist gain by using characters to
        express his own thoughts?

     2. What made the philosopher's holiday so notable?

     3. What had been his daily life?

     4. Comment on the various thoughts and fancies that came to the
        philosopher on his holiday.

     5. What is meant by the expression, “An Agonized Manhood”?

     6. What joys does the philosopher find?

     7. Show how his thoughts come back to the idea of work.

     8. In what did his lack of “sanity” consist?

     9. Does the expression, “I suppose I shall be sane to-morrow,” mean
        that he will wish to work, or wish to have a holiday, or wish
        for something else?

    10. What was the toy that he had almost forgotten how to play with?

    11. What is the author's purpose?

    12. What evils in modern life does the essay criticize?




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

When you have selected a subject that interests you, write out,
in a single sentence, your one most important thought on that subject.
Then plan to write an essay that will embody that thought.

If you are to imitate Mr. Towne's method you will think of a typical
character who will express your own thought. As soon as you have
introduced your character--notice how quickly Mr. Towne introduced the
“young-old philosopher”--lead him to relate an experience that made him
think about the subject. Write his meditations in such a way that they
will show all view-points. Let the end of your essay indicate, rather
than state, the view-point that you wish to emphasize.

Mr. Towne gives his essay many elements of originality and much beauty
of thought and expression. Imitate his style as well as you can.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[55] Sir Walter Raleigh is said to have laid his cloak in the mud so
that Queen Elizabeth might pass without soiling her garments.

[56] Narcissus. A Greek myth tells of a young man named Narcissus who,
leaning over a pool, fell in love with his own reflection, and changed
into a flower.

[57] Dante Gabriel Rosetti (1828-1882). An English poet of Italian and
English descent. His poems are marked by beauty of form, symbolism and
color.

[58] Innesfree. The Irish poet, William Butler Yeats (1864--) wrote
_The Lake Isle of Innisfree_ in which he imagines Innisfree as an
island of perfect peace, a place for which he longs when “on the
roadway, or on the pavements gray.”




                        THE STORY OF ADVENTURE




                         PRUNIER TELLS A STORY
                        By T. MORRIS LONGSTRETH

    _An American author and lover of natural scenery. His books on_ The
    Adirondacks, _and_ The Catskills _are enticements into the mountain
    world. He is a writer for many periodicals._

  =The romantic story of adventure deals with events that are far from
  being the events of daily life. Usually such a story has for its
  setting an unusual scene.=

  =_Prunier Tells a Story_ deals with events that come into very
  few lives; its setting is a region into which very few people
  penetrate. The principal character, the French-Canadian Prunier, is
  likewise a type of person with whom few are acquainted.=

  =At the same time, the story is told with a degree of naturalness
  that makes it seem real. The French-Canadian is brought into touch
  with daily life by the presence of his two listeners, who are
  people of the ordinary world, and one of whom is a boy.=

  =The story is not told merely for wild event: it hangs upon
  character and upon noble purpose. It emphasizes courage, ability,
  self-sacrifice and faith.=

  =The setting of the story is so used that it contributes in a marked
  degree to the entire effect. As one reads he feels himself in the
  icy north, in the grip of cold and darkness where wild events are
  altogether probable.=


                                PART I
                      THE PILLAR OF CLOUD BY DAY

It was after supper one November evening, at Wilderness House, with the
sleet dancing on the eaves and the great forest of Wildyrie closing us
about with its dark presence, when Essex Lad and I stumbled by chance
on the fact that we didn't have to read books for adventure, but merely
touch Prunier in some-story-telling place, and then--listen.

Prunier, you remember, is the blue-shirted, black-hatted
French-Canadian who lives with us and thinks he works. He is a
broad-shouldered, husky, simple-faced man of forty, who never opens his
mouth unless it be to point out a partridge we are overlooking or to
put in his black pipe. He spent his youth in the great Northland, where
adventures are as common as black flies in a swamp, and yet he had
never even explained the scar across his cheek, or the white patch on
his scalp where some other excitement had been registered, until that
evening when I had closed the Bible.

“Tink dat true?” he had suddenly asked.

I had been reading them how the Lord God had led Moses and the children
of Israel across that other wilderness by a pillar of cloud by day and
a pillar of fire by night. It had roused him strangely.

“I know it true,” he said, “for _le bon Dieu_ show me way by pillars
of cloud and fire _aussi_. If you want story, I tole you dat wan,
_moi-même_.”

It was our turn to be excited. Here was luck--a vacant evening, a
hearth fire, and Prunier promising _une longue histoire_, as he called
it. We formed a semi-circle before the blazing birch, and, with the
dull beat of the sleet above us for accompaniment, listened for the
first word that would launch the black-eyed man upon his tale. It was
long coming. He relit the pipe, recrossed his legs, muttered once “Pore
ole Pierre,” and stopped. We ceased to breathe; for though I could
command him to cut wood and wash dishes, I could not force from him a
syllable about “Pore ole Pierre” until he was good and ready.

“Monsieur Moses _et moi_, we have purty hard times in wilderness widout
doze pillars,” he said.

The Lad and I gave a nervous laugh. I could not fancy myself personally
conducting forty thousand Hebrews, even through Wildyrie, without much
assistance.

“Yaas,” he said, “purty hard. I now begin.”

And begin he did, slowly and with his quaint talk seasoned with his
habitant French, which I'll have to omit in my retelling.

“It was a night just like this, in my little cabin on Wolf River. It
had rained and then frozen, and the dark closed in with sleet. A very
good night to be indoors, thought ole Pierre and I. Ole Pierre was my
best friend, an old husky, who had been trapping with me four--five
years. He knew all that men know, I think, as well as all that dogs
understand, and he could smell a werewolf in the twilight.”

“A werewolf, what's that?” was on the very opening of the Lad's lips,
but he held back the question.

“A werewolf, you know,” went on Prunier, “is worse than real wolf, for
it is in the air--a ghost-wolf. That is why ole Pierre sometimes howled
in his sleep and kept her from visiting us. That is why I put a candle
in the window every dusk-time. As you shall see, it was lucky habit.

“_Eh bien_, that night I was sorting over my traps, for I thought it
would turn cold after the storm. Then I would cross Breknek Place and
begin the winter's trapping.

“Breknek Place is its name, because the sides of Wolf River come very
close together, almost so near a man can jump. Indeed its name is
really because a trapper like me was surprised by the wolves and ran
for it. But he was too scared, and missed. They never got his body, the
wolves, because the river runs so fast down to the Smoky Pool. Smoky
Pool is a warm cove in the St. Lawrence that freezes last, and from
which clouds of vapor rise on still days into the colder air.

“I never intended to be washed down that way, and in the summer I
felled a tree from bank to bank, a broad hemlock, big enough to run
a sledge over, almost; and that save many miles walking up river to
Portage du Loup. I never intended, either, to be run by the wolves, you
bet! And ole Pierre and I were pretty-very careful to be inside at the
candle-lighting time.

“That night our cabin was very quiet, like this, for the sleet was a
little pleasant sound, and ole Pierre was dreaming of old hunts, and I
was on the floor with the traps, when both the dog and I were brought
out of our thoughts by a wild cry, very faint and far away, but as
sharp and sudden as a cut of lightning on a summer night.

“The hair on the back of my neck rises just like ole Pierre's, for I
know it is the werewolf. And he looks at me and whines, for he knows
it, too. I rush and light a second candle, though I have not too many,
and look out the pane. But of course, there is nothing to be seen,
nothing to be heard, except the moaning of wind in the dark. Yet
later I hear a noise, very weak, very unsteady, as if a person was
approaching.

“Ole Pierre howls low in his throat and scratches on the door. I
reprove him: 'Are you possessed, ole Pierre? There is no soul within
sixty--seventy miles. And you and I have done nothing that should let
the werewolf in.'

“But it was fearful hearing that stealthy approach, stopping long, then
many steps, and a groan. I get out the Bible and read fast. But there
comes a _tap-tap_ at the door, and I tremble so the book almost falls
from my hand, and ole Pierre, he calls to his saints, too.

“What is the use of looking out, for who can see a werewolf?

“Presently there is no noise. The _tap-tap_ stops; and except for a
noise as of a bundle of something dropping against the door, there
is nothing to hear except the dull sleet on the eaves, ole Pierre
crying in his throat, and the _trip-trip_ of my heart that goes like a
werewolf pounding on my ribs. A voice inside me says open the door. But
another voice says 'That is a werewolf trick and you will be carried
away, Prunier.' Twenty times my hand is on the bolt.

“At last I can stand it no longer,--that voice inside saying to me to
open,--and I rush to it and throw it open before I have time to think,
and a body falls in, against my legs. A long, thin body it is, and I
hesitate to touch it, for a werewolf can take any form. But a groan
comes from it, and I have not the heart to push it out into the dark. I
prop it by the fire and its eyes droop open. 'Food--tie up food.' That
is the first word it says.

“I push some medicine for weakness into his mouth, and his life comes
back little by little. 'You must take food to her,' he says; and soon
again, 'The ship by Smoky Pool--she starves in it--my sister.'

“Indeed, I soon saw that he was faint from long travel and no feeding,
and perhaps a sickness past thrown in, for he faints much between
parts of his account. But I gather the news that he had come very far
from some deserted ship in which a sister was starving to death; and
alone, since his three partners had cleared out. He begged of me to
leave him and take food for her. He cried out that he was dying, and
I had to believe him; for death's shadows sat at the entrance to his
eyes. I made him glad by placing bread beside him, and by putting on my
Mackinaw and the pack after it, in which I had put food.

“A fever of uneasiness stirred him between faints until I had lit a
lantern and called to ole Pierre to follow. Then joy shone in his worn
eyes, and a blessing on us both followed us out into the icy night.

“With a last look through the window at the stranger, who had now, as
I thought, closed his eyes in surrender to the end, ole Pierre and I
turned into the endless forest on our long trail to the Smoky Pool.
The sleet was freezing as it fell, and the rays of my lantern lit the
woods, which seemed made of marble, the dark trunks glistening, the
laden boughs hanging down like chandeliers in a cathedral, and the
shrubs glittering like ten million candles as we passed. In such a
place, I thought, no werewolf dare attack us.

“Instead, I thought of the trail ahead, the long miles till we come to
Breknek Place, the long miles after to the ice-locked arm of the St.
Lawrence near by the Smoky Pool. On such an errand we had nothing to
fear, though outside the lantern-shine it was as dark as the one of
Monsieur Moses' bad plagues you have read to the Lad so lately.

“We had got within three--four miles of Wolf River, ole Pierre
slip-slipping on the ice in front of me, the lantern swinging, my pack
beginning to feel like a rest, when for the second time that night a
cry shivers across the distance, an awful sound for a lonely man to
hear in the night forest.

“It is a long howl, fierce and almost gladsome, like when the evil one
is clutching a new victim. And it is answered from the other side of
the night by another howl, and then a chorus from both sides at once.
And then the trail turns, and I know the pack of them is not chasing
deer far away, but chasing _me_, _us_. For ole Pierre knows it, too,
and crouches whining at my feet. Ole Pierre knows there is no escape,
like me.

“Have you ever seen a wolf-pack run down a deer by turns, leap at its
throat, and pull it down? I have once, near _Trois Rivières_, from
a safe place on a mountain. And it was bad enough to be in the safe
place, only watching. But that night how much worse! I pat ole Pierre
on the head and tell him to cheer up, there is no use dying three--four
times ahead of time. And as I say that, I think of that other man
chased by wolves who had tried to leap at Breknek Place.

“_'Tiens!_ ole Pierre,' I cry, 'let us do better!' And off I start at
a dead run, feet slipping sideways, lantern swinging, pack rising,
falling, like a rabbit's hind leg, with ole Pierre chasing after. It
is less than a mile to the narrow gorge. Could we make that, perhaps I
could throw the big hemlock in and stop them from crossing after us. A
revolver is no good against a pack, and going up a tree is only putting
off till to-morrow their big feast on habitant.

“The quick motion of our running put courage in our blood, and after
a little while even ole Pierre's brush waves higher in the air, as if
he had remembered some fight of old, and we gallop. We gallop, but the
wolves they gallop too. First on one side far off, then on the other
nearer, and ever as the trail winds in a new direction they sound like
pack on pack of them, although there might have been less than ten. It
is only late in the winter with us, when the snow is deep, that they
gather into big packs to pull down the moose.

“At length, breathless, very tired, but still ahead of them, ole Pierre
and I come out into the clear space just before the river. It was very
slippery with frozen sleet, and I fall once--twice; and ole Pierre
slide here--there, like a kitten on new ice. Ahead of us roars the
river through the deep gorge. Behind on two sides the howling comes
from the forest, and once, when I look back, I see them. But that can't
be, for it is so dark. Yet I imagine I see them--black, racing forms,
tongues out, muzzles sharp and red, and a green-yellow fire from the
eyes.

“And it was so. For before we reach the fallen hemlock, our bridge to
safety, two come between us and the river. With a yell, I fire straight
where they were, but it is too dark, too slippery to hit, and they only
circle back to wait till their partners come up. I fling myself down
breathless, weak, for just two seconds' wind.

“'Cross ole Pierre, cross over, _mon enfant_!' And he trotted to the
long log, but crawled back with his tail dragging, and whined about me.
Black shadows, five, ten, twelve maybe, circled outside the ring of my
lantern-light, and the green-yellow eyes were no imagination now. But
they were quiet, intent on closing in. With the lantern, which was our
only salvation from their fangs, in one hand and my revolver in the
other, I backed to the hemlock, calling to ole Pierre to follow. He is
trembling, and I soon know why; for when I put my foot on our bridge
to safety, it cannot stay, and I nearly plunge headlong into the rocky
stream thirty feet below. The log was slippery with frozen mist. We
were trapped. At our backs, a river not to be crossed; about us, a crew
of wolves getting bolder every minute.

“'Courage, ole Pierre!' I cried; and I fired once into them. There
was a shrill howl and cry, and several made a rush toward us, instead
of away. I drop the lantern to load my revolver. Ole Pierre brushes
against it, and in a second it starts to glide down the slope on the
sleet-ice. It goes faster, I gaping after it, slips with a flicker over
the edge, and we hear it crash and tinkle on the rocks down there!

“_Quel horreur!_ It was savage. The kerosene flares up, and for once
I see the whole scene plainly: the gorge, a great leap wide at its
narrowest, spouting light; the ice-silvered hemlock-bridge leading to
safety, but uncrossable except for a circus-dancer; a fringe of bushes,
with the sudden-illuminated forms of strong-shouldered wolves cowering
in their surprise at the light.

“Ole Pierre and I had three minutes,--I thought the kerosene would last
that long,--then darkness, a rush from the dark, hot fangs feeling for
the throat, and there would be no ole Pierre, no Prunier to rescue the
girl in the ship from starvation.

“And at the thought of her came the picture of my little cabin, the
fire we had left, the coziness of it. It made me mad--to die!

“'Quick, ole Pierre,' I say. '_Allons!_ We will crawl over the bridge,'
and I kneel on it. But my knees slip. I sit on it and push myself
along, until I can see the wrecked lantern, going slowly out. I call to
ole Pierre, and he comes out two--three paces, whines, cries, lies down
and trembles. The light is fading and when it goes it is our end. But I
cannot leave ole Pierre.

“I crawl back and take him in my arms, a very big arm-load. The light
is fading. I cannot see the bushes. And the eyes of the indistinct
brutes again begin to gleam. They approach the end of the tree. Ole
Pierre is too big to carry, and I set him down to fix my cartridges so
that I can get them easily. It is not so long to dawn. If we can hold
them at the end of the bridge till dawn, we might live.

“Suddenly a fearful thing happens: the kerosene flares up in a dying
leap, then the dark rushes at us, and, with a concert of snarls, the
pack comes with it. Ole Pierre is brave, but, as they reach us, the
rush of them cannot stop on the ice, and I feel the hair of one, I hear
his jaws. I know that they are pushing toward the edge, and in the dark
I have to feel for ole Pierre.

“There is an awful melée, and I fire. By the flash I see ole Pierre by
the brink, with two big wolves upon him. I drop my revolver to clutch
at him. A dark form leaps at me. I have my knife in my teeth. I drive
it hard and often, sometimes growling like a wolf myself, sometimes
calling to ole Pierre.

“Once more the lantern flares enough to show the blood on my knife,
the heap of struggling forms flung on my dog, and as it dies for the
last time I fancy them sliding--sliding. I rush to save him, but must
beat back a great hot-breathed creature whose jaws just scrape my
scalp. We are all sliding together now, faster, faster, toward the edge
of the gorge. A dripping muzzle tears my cheek,--it is this scar you
see,--but with both hands I throttle it; and clutching with a sort of
madness, I hold as we go over the edge--down, all together down--Poor
ole Pierre!”

Prunier stopped. For an hour Essex Lad and I had listened, more and
more intently, until now, when the subdued sound of his slow-speaking
ceased, we were both gripping the edge of our chairs, falling over the
edge of that gorge with him, sympathetically. I could have imagined the
least noise into the click of jaws.

But there was no noise, the Lad sitting perfectly rigid, speechless,
staring at the man. Presently he put out a hand, slowly, and touched
the guide as if to make sure that the fall had not been fatal. And
still neither of us spoke. Prunier was going to recommence. He opened
his mouth, but it was only to yawn.

“_Mon Dieu_,” he said, “but I sleep! It ees very late.” And the man
actually rose.

“But '_mon Dieu_,'” I said, “you can't leave us falling over a
precipice! What happened? Tell us at least what happened. And you
haven't even mentioned the pillar of fire or of smoke.”

“_C'est une très longue histoire._” [“It is a very long story.”]

“Poor ole Pierre!” said the Lad, as if coming out of a dream; “did it
kill him?”

Prunier shook his head, no. “It kill only the wolves we landed
on--_geplump!_ We had stopped on a gravel ledge, with the cold breath
of the river rushing by a foot away. I never lose sense. I begin chuck
wolves into the river. Three--four--five, in they go, my back bending,
my back straightening, and _gesplash!_ another howl down-stream! I
think I never lose sense. But I did.” He stopped again, and rubbed a
slow hand across his summer-tanned brow. “I must have losed sense. In
the morning there are _no_ animals on the ledge.”

“You mean--” began the Lad, and did not finish. Prunier nodded.

“But he would not have lived anyway,” I said, to ease the pain in his
memory. “Ole Pierre could not have lived with all the wolf-bites he
must have had.”

“I hope he know I was not in my sense,” said Prunier. “_Alors_, dawn
came soon, and I cross the stream on big rocks and climb up birch
sapling to the opposite bank. I look back. No sign of wolves. I look
forward, no sign of life to the north pole, no forest even, just
endless plain to the frozen river endless far away.

“I give a big groan, for there is no strength in my legs, no courage in
my heart, and I feel like falling on my knees and asking _le bon Dieu_
to show me the way. And it was as if He had heard, for suddenly my eye
is caught by a thin pillar of white ascending into the gray sky.

“'Courage,' I said, 'it is His sign.' I fixed my torn pack, bound up my
cheek and scalp, and made over the glassy surface of the plain straight
where the pillar led me. On and on I stumbled. I would never have
reached my errand's end but for that pillar of smoke. And if I had not
reached it.--” Again there was a pause. Then, “I will tell some other
time,” he said, “_c'est une longue histoire_.”

Not another word could we get from him, and we soon turned in. The last
thing I remember was the Lad's voice coming to me from his bed, “Don't
forget, Lucky, we'll get his pillar of fire out of him, too.”


                                PART II
                      THE PILLAR OF FIRE BY NIGHT

By next morning our storm of sleet had turned into a half-blizzard
of snow and we put another great birch log on the fire, got out a
new can of Prunier's favorite pipe tobacco, and generally made
ready to extract the rest of his story from him when he had finished
straightening up the kitchen.

“Yaas,” he said, “the next day to the day I was telling you about was
just such another as this. All that morning I walked toward _le bon
Dieu's_ pillar of smoke, and in the afternoon I reached it, rising from
the great whirling pool of steaming water into the gray sky that was
thickening for a great snow--the real beginning of winter.

“Not far from the Smoky Pool, just as the dead man had said it would
be, rode the schooner in the ice-locked cove where she had been
wrecked. All was as still as a scared mouse. Behind me rose that white
wavering pillar; and in front the vessel leaned a little, as if to
subside into a wave-trough that would never receive her. But silence
covered all, and I dreaded to enter that ship for fear of what I should
see.

“But the dead man had been a better brother than he had been a
ship-pilot, for he had left his sister most of the food; and when my
foot-falls sounded uncannily loud upon the deck, she came running out
of the cabin, a thin-cheeked, pale, slim woman. How she smiled! How the
smile died from her face when she saw it was not her brother, but a
stranger, torn, bloody-bandaged, ready to drop for fatigue!

“'Tell me, tell me quickly, what has happened. Who are you?' She
steadied herself against the cabin doorway. 'Is my brother--not living?'

“I had not the heart or the words to tell her at that moment that I had
left her brother closing his eyes in death in my little cabin so far
away. I think I asked _le bon Dieu_ to put words in my mouth that would
not cause her to faint. Anyway, the words came from me: 'Your brother
sent me. I left him--happy.'

“'I knew God would not desert me entirely,' she said. 'When will he
return?'

“'When _le bon Dieu_ leads the way,' I said, and I told her about the
pillar of cloud which had guided me to her.

“She pointed aloft, and I saw a lantern tied to the masthead. 'I have
put it there to light every night until he returns,' she said. 'It
will be lit many a night,' said I to myself; and I must have sighed
aloud, for she looked curiously at me. 'I am cruel!' she exclaimed; 'I
must show you your room.' She said it with almost a laugh, for it was
a funny little bunk she led me to. Into it I crawled, and off to sleep
I went, scarcely conscious that she washed the blood from my face and
ministered to my other wounds. When I woke, it was the next day.

“And such a day as it was! one thick smother of snow coming up the
great valley of the St. Lawrence on a bitter wind. And bitter cold it
was, too, in the little cabin of our schooner, though the fire in the
stove did its best. I was too sick, though, to know much what was going
on. Several times I heard the chopping of a hatchet. Several times she
came to me with hot food. And as the day passed, strength came back
to my blood and I got up. I surprised her lighting the lantern and
taking it out into the wild evening. I tried to stop that, fearing some
accident to her in the roar and rush of the storm, but she said her
brother must be lighted back, and so in the end it was I who had to
haul the swaying lantern to the masthead.

“For three days the snow flew by and heaped an ever-increasing drift
across the deck, around the cabin door. On the fourth day we looked
out on a scene of desolation. The sun shone dimly in skies of pinching
cold. There was no pillar of smoke, the pool having at last been frozen
over. There was a wide river of ice, piled in fantastic floes, a wider
plain, spotted here and there with thickets. And far off ran the
dark line of forest, inhabited by wolves which would speedily become
fiercer. In the forest far away stood my little cabin with its dead man
keeping guard. It would be long before I should see it, if I ever did.
Without snow-shoes, it would be impossible to cross the forest now;
without food, we could live only a short time longer on the ship. And
then I made the discovery that our stove fire was being maintained by
schooner wood. That had accounted for her chopping and for her grave
face as she carried in the wood. She had been breaking up a part of the
ship each day to keep the fire going!

“The responsibilities upon me made me forget my sorrows, the death
of ole Pierre, the lost time for trapping, the pinch of hunger. I
made a makeshift pair of skees from two plankings of the schooner,
and journeyed daily to some thicket by the shore wherein I had set my
snares, and we lived on rabbit stew. With much labor I cut a hole in
the ice, through which, with much patience, she fished. But days went
by when it was too stormy either to hunt or to fish, and we sat huddled
about the stove in which we burned as little wood as we could to keep
from freezing.

“During such times we talked, but not of the future, only of the past.
She told me how they, she and her brother, had set out on a rumor of
gold in the Laurentians; how the crew had deserted in a body with most
of the stores; how she and her brother had been unable to man the ship
sufficiently to keep it from this disaster. A dozen times she described
the scene where he had said farewell to her on the morning of the
day he had found me. A hundred times she asked me to tell her of our
meeting; and a thousand, I may well say, she wondered how soon he would
return.

“Every evening she had me hang the lantern to the mast to guide him
back. I could not prevent it, except by telling of his death, and that
I could not do. I feared that the news, coupled with our desperate
situation, would end her life. As it was, she was far too weak to
travel now, even if I had had the snow-shoes for her.

“Thus passed the first days. Then I saw that something must be done or
else we should soon have burned up the house that sheltered us, deck,
mast, and hull, before Christmas. Even then we were beginning on the
walls of the schooner, since she would not let me chop down the mast.

“'There will be no place to hang the lantern if you destroy that!' she
cried, when she had rushed out on deck one morning, to find me half-way
through the strong oak.

“'Your brother will not travel by night,' I said.

“'How do you know?' she asked, a new harshness in her tired voice;
'you, who will tell me so little about my brother!'

“This was an unkind reproach, for I had indeed stretched the facts too
much already in order to comfort her.

“'We cannot freeze,' I replied. 'You would not want him to arrive and
find us dead. I have measured out the fuel and know it is unwise not to
begin on these unnecessary parts of the ship first.'

“'Do you call my signal-mast unnecessary?' she called, her two thin
hands beating upon the wood. 'You are cruel. You would keep my brother
from me.'

“From that morning there began a sullenness between us, which was
nourished by too little food, and by being shut up in that bit of a
schooner cabin too long together. For relief's sake, when I was not
off snaring rabbits or looking for some stray up-river seal with my
revolver in my hand, I began building an igloo, a hut of snow you know,
not far from the ship. I thought that the time must be prepared for
when we should have chopped up our shelter, and have pushed our home
piecemeal into that devouring stove.

“She made no comment on my preparations. In fact, we did not talk
now, except to say the most necessary things. I was not sorry, for it
relieved me from telling over and over that impossible story of her
brother's return. I was convinced now that he had died, and my heart
grieved for her final discovery of the news. But the saddest thing was
to see the hunger for him grow daily stronger on her face. And it was
pitiful, too, to watch her light the lantern with hands weak enough to
tremble, to attach it to the signal-rope, and pull it to the masthead.
She would never let me assist her in this act.

“'To-morrow we must move,' I said one night. 'I have completed the
igloo. It will economize our fuel.'

“She nodded, weakly, as if she cared little what happened on the morrow.

“'And unless we catch a seal, we must save oil,' I added. The waste
of burning a lantern to attract a dead man's notice had got upon my
nerves. 'Please do not light it to-night, else we will go into the new
year dark.'

“'I shall not give up my brother!' she cried, with all her strength,
'for he will not give up me. But why does he not come? Why does he not
come?'

“It was heart-wringing to see her--to know what was in store. But it
would have been less kind of me to let this deception go on.

“'He will never come,' I said, as softly as I could; 'there is no use
in the light. Let us save oil.'

“Her weary, searching eyes questioned my face for the first time in
days, and then she struck a match and applied it to the wick.

“'He will come,' she said calmly, 'for God will guide him, and I am
helping God.' She went out into the dusk, and I heard the futile
lantern being pulled up to the masthead. I could not bear to interfere.

“So, since save fuel we must, I began practising deceit by stealing
out the next evening, lowering the signal and extinguishing it, then
hoisting the black lantern into place. But she guessed; and on the
second night, as I had my hand upon the rope to lower it, she grasped
my arm, her eyes flashing, her weak voice vibrant like the storm-wind.

“'Do you dare?' she said; 'do you dare betray me? You do not _want_
my brother.' And with fury she grasped the rope and jerked it from my
hand. A sudden anger filled me.

“'Unreasonable woman,' I cried, 'we must have the mast for firewood; we
must have the oil for light in the igloo! Let me alone.'

“'Let _me_ alone!' she screamed, struggling for the rope.

“It must have been insecurely fastened. At any rate, we had not been
contending many seconds in the darkness for the control of the light
above our heads when we heard a rattle and saw it coming down upon us.
I pushed her away just in time. The lantern struck some metal, burst,
and the spattering oil caught fire in the swiftness of a thought.

“For the first moment we were dumb; in the second, horror-struck. As
a serpent darts its tongue, rills of oil spread down the plank-seams
of the deck; and from each rill, flame leaped and ran about the ship.
With a wild shriek, the woman began to carry snow from a drift on the
prow and sprinkle it on the spreading conflagration. She might as well
have tried to extinguish it with her tears. In two minutes, yellow
tongues were running up the mast--that mast I had hoped would warm our
igloo for a fortnight. In three, there was no hope of a splinter of the
cold-dried boat remaining. I made one plunge into the cabin and grabbed
an arm-load of clothes and food, and ran with them to the igloo. But
when I had returned, there was no chance for a second try. The cabin
was a furnace of eager flame.

“The woman, the weeping cause of this, and I were beaten back by the
heat, and at the opening of our only refuge now, the hut of snow, we
stood and watched the swift destruction of the schooner's hulk. About
us, the night's darkness was driven to its dusky horizons. Overhead,
the zenith was lit by the up-roaring pillar of fire which had so lately
been a mast, a deck, a ship. We looked in silence, while the tower
of flame rushed into the sky, like a signal to the wilderness. But a
signal of what? Two houseless individuals, robbed of their store of
food, with no means of moving, and nowhere to move.”

Prunier paused, and Essex Lad drew a long breath. It was his first for
minutes.

“So that was your pillar of fire?” I said, “It seems to me more like
one of Satan's than the Lord's.”

Prunier made an expressive gesture with his pipe. “_Le bon Dieu_ does
all things for the best,” he said reverently. “_Alors._ We stood there
watching, the heat reaching us, and even eating maliciously into the
white walls of our last hiding-place. But that did not go on long, for
the ship was pouring its soul too lavishly into that hot pyre to last.

“'Quick,' I said to my fellow-outcast, 'drink in all the heat you can,
for this is the end.'

“'And it is my fault!' she said; 'can you forgive me?'

“'Can _you_?' I asked. 'We must be brave now. Let us warm ourselves
while there are coals to warm us. Let us warm our wits and think, for
before day dawns we must have a plan.'

“'It is too hard,' she said hopelessly.

“'Trust God for one night more. Perhaps I can make a sledge and pull
you to my cabin. There is food there.'

“'You are too weak,' she said. And I knew that she was right.

“As the pillar of fire died down until it was a mere bright spiral
of gilded smoke, and after the sides of the schooner had burned to
the water-line, leaving great benches of blackened ice about, we drew
nearer and nearer to the lessening warmth. Darkness and cold and the
northern silence shut us in.

“We spoke in whispers, but hope died in me with the fading fire. What
chance for escape was there with a half-starved woman across a great
snow-plain; and then through forests deep with the first snows and
roamed by wolves, whose savageries I had tasted?

“Luckily there was no wind. Smaller and smaller was the circle of
light, weaker and weaker the heat. And tireder and more tired grew our
heads that could see no light of safety ahead.

“I think, sitting close together there, we dozed. Certainly not for
long, however, because the pillar of fire, though now a mere thread,
was still pointing a finger into _le bon Dieu's_ heaven, when I heard a
_crunch_, _crunch_!

“'Wolves!' I said to myself, coming to my senses with a jerk. I felt
for a revolver, but the only one had been left in the cabin.

“'Dear Lord,' I prayed, 'spare us this.'

“But the crunch came nearer, nearer, like the soft foot-falls of many
beasts, yet not quite like them either. I grasped a black-charred
spar; ran it into a heap of red ashes to make it as deadly a weapon as
possible. A little flame sprang from the pile, and in its light I went
to grapple with this new danger.

“The woman had heard, and, with a little scream, sprang to her feet and

       [Illustration: =“'You made a fine signal'.”=]    (_page 165_)

quickly came up behind me, put her hand upon me, and cried: 'He has
come! It is my brother who has come!'

“And, as in the Bible, where Monsieur Moses spoke to the rock and the
water gushed from it, so the woman cried into the dark and an answering
voice sprang from it--a voice as from the dead.

“I stood trembling, too weak to move.

“'You made a fine signal,' the voice said. 'Thank God for it!'

“'Yes, thank _le bon Dieu_, for it was His pillar of fire,' I said.
'Who are you?'

“'The rescued come to rescue,' he replied; 'her brother.'

“His sister had sunk upon the snow. As he bent to pick her up, I saw
the extra pairs of snow-shoes on his back, I noticed my toboggan that
he was pulling, and the stores of food upon it.

“'You are strong again,' I said, wishing to pinch him to see whether he
was he, or a trick of some werewolf who was deceiving me.

“'Thanks to your food,' “'But you have been long coming, brother,' said
she, weakly. 'Why so long?'

“'All the bays are much alike,' he explained; 'and when the Smoky Pool
was frozen, I lost my only clue. I was getting always farther away on
my hunt, when the Lord turned and led me here by His pillar of fire.'

“And the three of us, standing there in the dark of earliest dawn
beneath the Great Bear, we keep still and say three--four prayers from
ourselves to that same Jehovah who had guided Monsieur Moses, for the
making of us safe.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Prunier ceased abruptly and knocked out his pipe upon the hearth-side,
then gazed reminiscently out into the falling snow.

I was busy with the picture in my brain of that blackened hulk, the
frail woman and her almost helpless companion standing there in the
midst of that gray waste of coming dawn. But the Lad's mind had already
gone scouting on before.

“And were you made safe, Prunier?” he asked.

“Oh, _certainement_!” said the guide, almost drolly. “_Voyez_, I am
here.”

“Then tell us--” commanded the insatiable youth.

“_Mais, cette une longue histoire_,” was all we heard.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What means does the author employ to lead naturally into the
        story of romantic adventure?

     2. What is the advantage of introducing two ordinary people in the
        very beginning of the story?

     3. What is the character of Prunier?

     4. How do Prunier's peculiar characteristics aid the story?

     5. How does the author indicate Prunier's way of speaking?

     6. Why is the entire story not told in dialect?

     7. How does the author present the setting of the story?

     8. What part does the dog play in the story?

     9. What part does superstition play?

    10. Point out the three or four most exciting parts of the story.

    11. Explain how the characters are saved from threatening dangers.

    12. In what respects is the story a narrative of contest?

    13. Why is the narrative divided into two sections?

    14. Why are the two ordinary people mentioned throughout the story?

    15. What part does religious faith play?

    16. In what respects is the second part of the story more intense
        than the first part?

    17. What is the character of the sister?

    18. What is the character of the brother?

    19. How does misfortune turn into blessing?

    20. How is the climax made emphatic?

    21. What did Prunier omit?

    22. Point out the most romantic episodes in the story.

    23. Point out the most realistic touches in the story.

    24. What noble qualities does the story emphasize?

    25. How does the story affect the reader?




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

In the introduction of your romance use familiar scenes, events or
characters that will lead naturally to a narrative of startling events.
Say enough to indicate the setting of your story and to make it a
vital factor in producing effect but do not write any long-drawn
descriptions or explanations. Let your characters tell the story
and present its setting.

Make all the action hinge on worthy effort, and contribute to awakening
respect for the characters. Tell a series of most unusual events. In
telling every incident make full use of suspense and of climax. Tell
the incidents in such a way that one will lead naturally to another.

Your story will produce the most startling effect if you show your hero
apparently defeated but able, at the last moment, to find a means of
escape from danger.

Keep your story true to human nature, and to the best ideals of human
nature.




                          THE DIDACTIC ESSAY




                           THE AMERICAN BOY
                         By THEODORE ROOSEVELT


    _(1858-1919). Twenty-sixth President of the United States. One of
    the most vigorous, courageous and picturesque figures in the public
    life of his day. Soon after his graduation from Harvard, and from
    Columbia Law School he entered public life, and gave invaluable
    service in many positions, becoming President in 1901, and again
    in 1904. His work as an organizer of the “Rough Riders,” his skill
    in horsemanship, his courage as an explorer and hunter, and his
    staunch patriotism and high ideals all made him both interesting
    and beloved. His work as an author is alone sufficient to make
    him great. Among his many books are_ The Winning of the West; The
    Strenuous Life; African Game Trails; True Americanism.

  =_The American Boy_ is a didactic essay,--an essay that expresses
  the writer's individuality and opinions and at the same time
  conveys instruction in the form of inspiration. Such an essay
  approaches the oration and the treatise. It differs from the
  oration in being less strongly didactic, and from the treatise in
  being less formal and comprehensive.=

  =Mr. Roosevelt's personality is particularly evident in _The
  American Boy_. In every paragraph the reader feels the virile
  strength, the masterful force, the firm-set manhood, the
  broad-minded attitude toward all things that are good, and the
  intense hatred of cowardice and evil that always characterized Mr.
  Roosevelt. The writer is not so much telling a boy what to do as he
  is telling what sort of boy he admires.=

  =The force of such an essay is great. No one, boy or man, can read
  _The American Boy_ without being the better for it, without himself
  admiring manliness, the right balance between athletics and study,
  and the ideals of courage and fair-play.=


Of course, what we have a right to expect of the American boy is that
he shall turn out to be a good American man. Now, the chances are
strong that he won't be much of a man unless he is a good deal of a
boy. He must not be a coward or a weakling, a bully, a shirk, or a
prig. He must work hard and play hard. He must be clean-minded and
clean-lived, and able to hold his own under all circumstances and
against all comers. It is only on these conditions that he will grow
into the kind of American man of whom America can be really proud.

There are always in life countless tendencies for good and for
evil, and each succeeding generation sees some of these tendencies
strengthened and some weakened; nor is it by any means always,
alas! that the tendencies for evil are weakened and those for good
strengthened. But during the last few decades there certainly have
been some notable changes for good in boy life. The great growth in
the love of athletic sports, for instance, while fraught with danger
if it becomes one-sided and unhealthy, has beyond all question had an
excellent effect in in-reared manliness. Forty or fifty years ago the
writer on American morals was sure to deplore the effeminacy and luxury
of young Americans who were born of rich parents. The boy who was well
off then, especially in the big Eastern cities, lived too luxuriously,
took to billiards as his chief innocent recreation, and felt small
shame in his inability to take part in rough pastimes and field sports.
Nowadays, whatever other faults the son of rich parents may tend to
develop, he is at least forced by the opinion of all his associates of
his own age to bear himself well in manly exercises and to develop his
body--and therefore, to a certain extent, his character--in the rough
sports which call for pluck, endurance, and physical address.

Of course, boys who live under such fortunate conditions that they
have to do either a good deal of outdoor work or a good deal of what
might be called natural outdoor play, do not need this athletic
development. In the Civil War the soldiers who came from the prairie
and the backwoods and the rugged farms where stumps still dotted the
clearings, and who had learned to ride in their infancy, to shoot
as soon as they could handle a rifle, and to camp out whenever they
got the chance, were better fitted for military work than any set
of mere school or college athletes could possibly be. Moreover, to
mis-estimate athletics is equally bad whether their importance is
magnified or minimized. The Greeks were famous athletes, and as long
as their athletic training had a normal place in their lives, it was
a good thing. But it was a very bad thing when they kept up their
athletic games while letting the stern qualities of soldiership and
statesmanship sink into disuse. Some of the boys who read this paper
will certainly sometime read the famous letters of the younger Pliny,
a Roman who wrote, with what seems to us a curiously modern touch,
in the first century of the present era. His correspondence with
the Emperor Trajan is particularly interesting; and not the least
noteworthy thing in it is the tone of contempt with which he speaks
of the Greek athletic sports, treating them as the diversions of an
unwarlike people which it was safe to encourage in order to keep the
Greeks from turning into anything formidable. So at one time the
Persian kings had to forbid polo, because soldiers neglected their
proper duties for the fascinations of the game. To-day, some good
critics have asserted that the reverses suffered by the British at the
hands of the Boers in South Africa are in part due to the fact that
the English officers and soldiers have carried to an unhealthy extreme
the sports and pastimes which would be healthy if indulged in with
moderation, and have neglected to learn as they should the business
of their profession. A soldier needs to know how to shoot and take
cover and shift for himself--not to box or play football. There is,
of course, always the risk of thus mistaking means for ends. English
fox-hunting is a first-class sport; but one of the most absurd things
in real life is to note the bated breath with which certain excellent
Englishmen, otherwise of quite healthy minds, speak of this admirable
but not over-important pastime. They tend to make it almost as much of
a fetish as, in the last century, the French and German nobles made the
chase of the stag, when they carried hunting and game-preserving to a
point which was ruinous to the national life. Fox-hunting is very good
as a pastime, but it is about as poor a business as can be followed by
any man of intelligence. Certain writers about it are fond of quoting
the anecdote of a fox-hunter who, in the days of the English Civil War,
was discovered pursuing his favorite sport just before a great battle
between the Cavaliers and the Puritans, and right between their lines
as they came together. These writers apparently consider it a merit
in this man that when his country was in a death-grapple, instead of
taking arms and hurrying to the defense of the cause he believed right,
he should placidly have gone about his usual sports. Of course, in
reality the chief serious use of fox-hunting is to encourage manliness
and vigor, and keep a man so that in time of need he can show himself
fit to take part in work or strife for his native land. When a man so
far confuses ends and means as to think that fox-hunting, or polo, or
football, or whatever else the sport may be, is to be itself taken as
the end, instead of as the mere means of preparation to do work that
counts when the time arises, when the occasion calls--why, that man had
better abandon sport altogether.

No boy can afford to neglect his work, and with a boy work, as a rule,
means study. Of course, there are occasionally brilliant successes
in life where the man has been worthless as a student when a boy. To
take these exceptions as examples would be as unsafe as it would be
to advocate blindness because some blind men have won undying honor
by triumphing over their physical infirmity and accomplishing great
results in the world. I am no advocate of senseless and excessive
cramming in studies, but a boy should work, and should work hard,
at his lessons--in the first place, for the sake of what he will
learn, and in the next place, for the sake of the effect upon his own
character of resolutely settling down to learn it. Shiftlessness,
slackness, indifference in studying, are almost certain to mean
inability to get on in other walks of life. Of course, as a boy grows
older it is a good thing if he can shape his studies in the direction
toward which he has a natural bent; but whether he can do this or
not, he must put his whole heart into them. I do not believe in
mischief-doing in school hours, or in the kind of animal spirits that
results in making bad scholars; and I believe that those boys who take
part in rough, hard play outside of school will not find any need for
horse-play in school. While they study they should study just as hard
as they play football in a match game. It is wise to obey the homely
old adage, “Work while you work; play while you play.”

A boy needs both physical and moral courage. Neither can take the
place of the other. When boys become men they will find out that there
are some soldiers very brave in the field who have proved timid and
worthless as politicians, and some politicians who show an entire
readiness to take chances and assume responsibilities in civil affairs,
but who lack the fighting edge when opposed to physical danger. In each
case, with soldiers and politicians alike, there is but half a virtue.
The possession of the courage of the soldier does not excuse the lack
of courage in the statesman, and even less does the possession of the
courage of the statesman excuse shrinking on the field of battle.
Now, this is all just as true of boys. A coward who will take a blow
without returning it is a contemptible creature; but, after all, he is
hardly as contemptible as the boy who dares not stand up for what he
deems right against the sneers of his companions who are themselves
wrong. Ridicule is one of the favorite weapons of wickedness, and it is
sometimes incomprehensible how good and brave boys will be influenced
for evil by the jeers of associates who have no one quality that calls
for respect, but who affect to laugh at the very traits which ought to
be peculiarly the cause for pride.

There is no need to be a prig. There is no need for a boy to preach
about his own good conduct and virtue. If he does he will make himself
offensive and ridiculous. But there is urgent need that he should
practise decency; that he should be clean and straight, honest and
truthful, gentle and tender, as well as brave. If he can once get to
a proper understanding of things, he will have a far more hearty
contempt for the boy who has begun a course of feeble dissipation, or
who is untruthful, or mean, or dishonest, or cruel, than this boy and
his fellows can possibly, in return, feel for him. The very fact that
the boy should be manly and able to hold his own, that he should be
ashamed to submit to bullying without instant retaliation, should, in
return, make him abhor any form of bullying, cruelty, or brutality.

There are two delightful books, Thomas Hughes's “Tom Brown at Rugby,”
and Aldrich's “Story of a Bad Boy,” which I hope every boy still
reads; and I think American boys will always feel more in sympathy
with Aldrich's story, because there is in it none of the fagging, and
the bullying which goes with fagging, the account of which, and the
acceptance of which, always puzzle an American admirer of Tom Brown.

There is the same contrast between two stories of Kipling's. One,
called “Captains Courageous,” describes in the liveliest way just what
a boy should be and do. The hero is painted in the beginning as the
spoiled, over-indulged child of wealthy parents, of a type which we do
sometimes unfortunately see, and than which there exist few things more
objectionable on the face of the broad earth. This boy is afterward
thrown on his own resources, amid wholesome surroundings, and is forced
to work hard among boys and men who are real boys and real men doing
real work. The effect is invaluable. On the other hand, if one wishes
to find types of boys to be avoided with utter dislike, one will find
them in another story by Kipling, called “Stalky & Co.,” a story which
ought never to have been written, for there is hardly a single form of
meanness which it does not seem to extol, or of school mismanagement
which it does not seem to applaud. Bullies do not make brave men; and
boys or men of foul life cannot become good citizens, good Americans,
until they change; and even after the change scars will be left on
their souls.

The boy can best become a good man by being a good boy--not a
goody-goody boy, but just a plain good boy. I do not mean that he must
love only the negative virtues; I mean he must love the positive
virtues also. “Good,” in the largest sense, should include whatever
is fine, straightforward, clean, brave, and manly. The best boys I
know--the best men I know--are good at their studies or their business,
fearless and stalwart, hated and feared by all that is wicked and
depraved, incapable of submitting to wrongdoing, and equally incapable
of being aught but tender to the weak and helpless. A healthy-minded
boy should feel hearty contempt for the coward, and even more hearty
indignation for the boy who bullies girls or small boys, or tortures
animals. One prime reason for abhorring cowards is because every good
boy should have it in him to thrash the objectionable boy as the need
arises.

Of course, the effect that a thoroughly manly, thoroughly straight and
upright boy can have upon the companions of his own age, and upon those
who are younger, is incalculable. If he is not thoroughly manly, then
they will not respect him, and his good qualities will count for but
little; while, of course, if he is mean, cruel, or wicked, then his
physical strength and force of mind merely make him so much the more
objectionable a member of society. He cannot do good work if he is not
strong, and does not try with his whole heart and soul to count in any
contest; and his strength will be a curse to himself and to every one
else if he does not have thorough command over himself and over his
own evil passions, and if he does not use his strength on the side of
decency, justice, and fair dealing.

In short, in life, as in a football game, the principle to follow is:

Hit the line hard; don't foul and don't shirk, but hit the line hard!


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. In a single sentence express Mr. Roosevelt's principal thought.

     2. Point out the subordinate thoughts that aid the development of
        the essay.

     3. Point out examples of antithesis.

     4. Show how Mr. Roosevelt gains power by the use of short and
        common words.

     5. Describe the sort of boy whom Mr. Roosevelt does not admire.

     6. Describe the sort of boy whom Mr. Roosevelt does admire.

     7. What is Mr. Roosevelt's opinion of the value of athletics?

     8. What is Mr. Roosevelt's opinion of the relative position of
        study and of athletics?

     9. What sort of books for boys does Mr. Roosevelt admire?

    10. What is the effect of the last sentence?





                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Your subject must be one on which you have strong convictions
as the result of personal experience. In a certain sense, your
essay must represent your own life. Try to hold forward no ideals
that you yourself do not uphold.

Formulate a strong central thought, and two or three subordinate and
supporting thoughts. When you have done this develop your essay step
by step, giving examples drawn from history or from well-known facts.
Mention books that set forward the ideals you wish to emphasize.

Write in a strong, forceful, almost commanding style, but do not say
“Thus and so shalt thou do.” Speak in strong terms of the principles
that you admire but leave your readers to draw value from the
enthusiasm of your words rather than information from directions given.




                        THE SPIRIT OF ADVENTURE
                        By HILDEGARDE HAWTHORNE


    _Daughter of Julian Hawthorne, and grand-daughter of Nathaniel
    Hawthorne. She writes with rare charm and literary power, and
    contributes regularly to many periodicals. Among her books are_: A
    Country Interlude; The Lure of the Garden; Old Seaport Towns of New
    England; Girls in Bookland.

  =The article that follows is much like an oration or an editorial
  article in that it is directed to “you” rather than expressive of
  “I”. The true essay is not concerned with “you”: it is concerned
  only with “I”.=

  =Both the oration and the editorial article have much in common
  with the essay type; for both turn aside frequently into the happy
  fields of meditation.=

  =The first three paragraphs of _The Spirit of Adventure_ are purely
  personal in nature and therefore wholly in keeping with the spirit
  of the essay form. Furthermore, those paragraphs--so reminiscent
  of the fancy of the writer's famous grandfather, Nathaniel
  Hawthorne,--represent poetic prose. Throughout the article the
  personal note mingles with the directing voice of the editorial
  article. Indeed, it would be easy to drop from _The Spirit of
  Adventure_ everything that is not personal, and thereby to leave
  pure essay.=

  =As it stands, _The Spirit of Adventure_ is a didactic essay, brave
  and strong in its thought, and poetic in its style.=


Wind has always seemed wonderful and beautiful to me.

Invisible as it is, it pervades the whole world. It has the very
quality of life. Without wind, how dead and still the world would be!
In the autumn, wind shakes the leaves free and sends them flying, gold
and red. It takes the seeds of many plants and sows them over the
land. It blows away mists and sets clouds to voyaging, brings rain
and fair weather the year round, builds up snow in fantastic palaces,
rolls the waves high, murmurs a fairy music in the pines and shouts
aloud in storms. Wind is the great adventurer of nature. Sometimes it
is so fierce and terrible that nothing can stand before it--houses
are torn to shreds, trees are felled, ruin follows where it goes. At
other times, it comes marching wet and salt from the sea, or dry and
keen from the mountains on hot summer days, bringing ease and rest and
health. Keen as a knife, it whips over the frozen ground in winter and
screams wildly round the farm-house, taps the panes with ghost fingers,
and whistles like a sprite in the chimney. It brings sails from land to
land, turns windmills in quaint foreign places, and sets the flags of
all the countries of the world fluttering on their high staffs.

Wind is nature's spirit of adventure, keeping her world vigorous,
clean, and alive.

For us, too, the spirit of adventure is the fine wind of life, and
if we have it not, or lose it, either as individual or nation, then
we begin to die, our force and freshness depart, we stop in our
tracks, and joy vanishes. For joy is a thing of movement and energy,
of striving forward, a thing of hope as well as fruition. You must
be thoroughly alive to be truly joyful, and all the great things
accomplished by men and nations have been accomplished by vigorous and
active souls, not content to sit still and hold the past, but eager to
press on and to try undiscovered futures.

If ever a nation was founded on, and built up by, the spirit of
adventure, that nation is our own. The very finding of it was the
result of a splendid upspring of that spirit. From then on through
centuries it was only men in whom the spirit of adventure was strong as
life itself who reached our shores. Great adventurers, on they came,
borne as they should be, by wind itself! Gallant figures, grim figures,
moved by all sorts of lures and impulses, yet one and all stirred and
led by the call of adventure, that cares nothing for ease of body
or safety, for old, tried rules and set ways and trodden paths, but
passionately for freedom and effort, for what is strange and dangerous
and thrilling, for tasks that call on brain and body for quick, new
decisions and acts.

The spirit of adventure did not die with the settling of our shores.
Following the sea adventures came those of the land, the pioneers, who
went forward undismayed by the perils and obstacles that appeared quite
as insurmountable as did the uncharted seas to Columbus's men. Think of
the days, when next you ride across our great continent in the comfort
of a Pullman, when it took five months and more to make the same
journey with ox-teams. Think how day followed day for those travelers
across the Great Plains in a sort of changeless spell, where they
topped long slow rise after long slow rise only to see the seemingly
endless panorama stretch on before them. Think how they passed the
ghastly signs of murdered convoys gone before, and yet pressed on.
Think how they settled here and there in new strange places where never
the foot of men like themselves had been set before, and proceeded to
build homes and till the land, rifle in hand; think how their wives
reared their children and kept their homes where never a white child or
a Christian home had been before.

Where should we be to-day but for such men and women--if this wind of
the spirit had never blown through men's hearts and fired them on to
follow its call, as the wind blows a flame?

Wherever you look here in America you can see the signs and traces
of this wonderful spirit. In old towns, like Provincetown or
Gloucester,[59] you still hear tales of the whale-fisheries, and still
see boats fare out to catch cod and mackerel on the wild and dangerous
Banks. But in the past, the fishers sailed away for a year or two,
round the globe itself, after their game! You see the spirit's tracks
along the barren banks of the Sacramento,[60] where the gold-seekers
fronted the wilderness after treasure, and in Alaska it walks
incarnate. It is hewing its way in forests and digging it in mines; it
is building bridges and plants in the deserts and the mountains. Out it
goes to the islands of the Pacific, and in Africa it finds a land after
its heart.

How much of this spirit lives in you?

I tell you, when I hear a girl or a boy say: “This place is good enough
for me. I can get a good job round the corner! I know all the folks in
town; and I don't see any reason for bothering about how they live in
other places or what they do away from here”; when I hear that sort of
talk from young people, my heart sinks a bit.

For such boys and girls there is no golden call of adventure, no lure
of wonder by day and night, no desire to measure their strength against
the world, no hope of something finer and more beautiful than what they
have as yet known or seen.

I like the boy or girl who sighs after a quest more difficult than the
trodden trail, who wants more of life than the assurance of a good job.
I know very well that the home-keeping lad has a stout task to perform
and a good life to live. But I know, too, that if the youth of a nation
loses its love of adventure, if that wild and moving spirit passes from
it, then the nation is close to losing its soul. It has about reached
the limit of its power and growth.

So much in our daily existence works against this noble spirit,
disapproves it, fears it. People are always ready to prove that there
is neither sense nor profit in it. Why should you sail with Drake[61]
and Frobisher,[62] or march with Fremont[63] or track the forest with
Boone,[64] when it is so much easier and safer and pays better to stay
at home? Why shouldn't you be content to do exactly like the people
about you, and live the life that is already marked out for you to live?

That is what most of us will do. But that is no reason why the
glorious spirit of adventure should be denied and reviled. It is the
great spirit of creation in our race. If it stirs in you, listen to it,
be glad of it.

A mere restless impulse to move about, the necessity to change your
environment or else be bored, the dissatisfaction with your condition
that leads to nothing but ill temper or melancholy, these are not part
of the spirit of which I am speaking. You may develop the spirit of
adventure without stirring from home, for it is not ruled by the body
and its movements. Great and high adventure may be yours in the home
where you now live, if you realize that home as a part of the great
world, as a link of the vast chain of life. Two boys can sit side by
side on the same hearth-stone, and in one the spirit of adventure is
living and calling, in the other it is dead. To the first, life will
be an opportunity and a beckoning. He will be ready to give himself
for the better future; he will be ready to strike hands with the fine
thought and generous endeavor of the whole world, bringing to his own
community the fruit of great things, caring little for the ease and
comfort of his body, but much for the possibilities of a finer, truer
realization of man's eternal struggle toward a purer liberty and a
nobler life. The spirit of adventure is a generous spirit, kindling
to great appeals. Of the two boys, sitting there together, the second
may perhaps go round the world, but to him there will be no song and
no wonder. He will not find adventure, because he has it not. The old
phrase, “adventures to the adventurous,” is a true saying. The selfish
and the small of soul know no adventures.

As I think of America to-day, I say the spirit that found and built her
must maintain her. There are great things to be done for America in
the coming years, in your years. Her boundaries are fixed, but within
those boundaries marvelous development is possible. Her government has
found its form, but there is work for the true adventurer in seeing
that the spirit of that government, in all its endless ramifications
and expressions, fulfils the intention of human liberty and well-being
that lie within that form. Her relations with the world outside of
herself are forming anew, and here too there is labor of the noblest.
The lad who cares only for his own small job and his own small
comforts, who dreads the rough contacts of life and the dangers of
pioneering will not help America much.

In the older days the Pilgrim Fathers cast aside every comfort of
life to follow the call of liberty, coming to a wilderness so remote,
that for us a voyage to some star would scarcely seem more distant or
strange. None of us will be called upon to do so tremendous a thing as
that act of theirs, so far as the conditions of existence go, since the
telegraph and the aëroplane and turbine knit us close. But there are
adventures quite as magnificent to be achieved.

The spirit of adventure loves the unknown. And in the unknown we shall
find all the wonders that are waiting for us. Our whole life is lived
on the very border of unknown things, but only the adventurous spirit
reaches out to these and makes them known, and widens the horizons
for humanity. The very essence of the spirit of adventure is in doing
something no one has done before. Every high-road was once a trail,
every trail had its trail-breaker, setting his foot where no man's foot
had gone before through what new forests and over what far plains.

It is good to ride at ease on the broad highway, with every turning
marked and the rules all kept. But it is not the whole of life. The
savor of lonely dawns, the call of an unknown voice, the need to
establish new frontiers of spirit and action beyond any man has yet
set, these are also part of life. Do not forego them. You are young and
the world is before you. Be among those who perceive all its variety,
its potentialities, who can see good in the new and unknown, and find
joy in hazard and strength in effort. Do not be afraid of strange
manners and customs, nor think a thing is wrong because it is different.

Throw wide the great gates of adventure in your soul, young America!


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Point out effects that have been gained by the use of figures of
        speech.

     2. What is the relation of the first three paragraphs to the
        remainder of the essay?

     3. Point out the parts of _The Spirit of Adventure_ that depart
        from the strict form of the essay.

     4. Indicate what may be omitted in order to make _The Spirit of
        Adventure_ truly an essay.

     5. How many historical allusions are made in the essay?

     6. Explain the most important historical allusions.

     7. What does the writer mean by “the spirit of adventure”?

     8. What does she say is the importance of such a spirit?

     9. How can an ordinary person carry out the writer's wishes?

    10. How does the style of the essay strengthen the presentation of
        thought?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

If you wish to write two or three paragraphs of poetic prose in
imitation of the first three paragraphs of _The Spirit of Adventure_
choose one of the topics in the second column. Write, first of all,
a sentence that will summarize your principal thought, a sentence
that will correspond with the sentence that forms the third paragraph
of Miss Hawthorne's essay. Then lead up to this sentence by
writing a series of sentences full of fancy. Use figures of speech
freely. Arrange your words, phrases or clauses so that you will
produce both striking effects and also rhythm.

If you wish to write in imitation of the entire essay choose one of
the topics in the first column. Begin your work by writing a series of
poetic paragraphs that will present the spirit of your essay. Continue
to write in a somewhat poetic style, but make many definite allusions
to history, literature or the facts of life.

Throughout your work express your own personality as much as you can.
End your essay by making some personal appeal but do not make your work
too didactic.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[59] Provincetown or Gloucester. Famous sea-coast towns on the coast of
Massachusetts.

[60] Sacramento. A river of California, near which gold was discovered
in 1848.

[61] Sir Francis Drake (1540-1596). A great English sailor and naval
commander. He was the first Englishman to circumnavigate the earth, and
was one of the commanders in the fight with the Spanish Armada, 1888.

[62] Sir Martin Frobisher (1535-1594). The discoverer of Frobisher Bay;
one of the leaders against the Spanish Armada.

[63] John C. Fremont (1813-1890). An American general noted for his
explorations of the West.

[64] Daniel Boone (1735-1820). An early American explorer, pioneer and
Indian fighter.




                          VANISHING NEW YORK
                  By ROBERT and ELIZABETH SHACKLETON


    _Robert Shackleton (1860--) and his wife, Elizabeth Shackleton,
    have written much in collaboration. Among such works are:_ The
    Quest of the Colonial; Adventures in Home Making; The Charm of the
    Antique. _Mr. Shackleton was at one time associate editor of_ The
    Saturday Evening Post. _He is the author of many books, among which
    are_ Touring Great Britain; History of Harper's Magazine, _and_ The
    Book of New York.

  =Washington Irving's _Sketch Book_ tells of Irving's delighted
  wanderings around old London, and of his interest in streets and
  buildings that awoke memories of the past. _Vanishing New York_
  is an essay that corresponds closely with the essays written by
  Irving so many years ago. In this modern essay Robert and Elizabeth
  Shackleton tell of their wanderings about old New York, of odd
  streets, curious buildings, and romantic and historic associations.
  The essay gives to New York an interest that makes it, in the eyes
  of the reader, as fascinating as Irving's old London.=

  =The writers do more than tell the story of a walk about New York,
  and much more than merely name and describe the places they saw. By
  a skilful use of adjectives, and by an interested suggestiveness,
  they throw over the places they mention an atmosphere of charm. We
  feel that we are with them, enjoying and loving the curious old
  places that seem so destined to vanish forever.=

  What is left of old New York that is quaint and charming? The New
  York of the eighties and earlier, of Henry James,[65] of Gramercy
  Park, Washington and Stuyvesant squares, quaint old houses on
  curious by-streets? The period of perhaps a more beautiful and
  certainly a more leisurely existence? All places of consequence and
  interest that remain to-day are herewith described.


To one, vanishing New York means a little box garden up in the Bronx,
glimpsed just as the train goes into the subway. To another, it is a
fan-light on Horatio Street; an old cannon, planted muzzle downward at
a curb-edge; a long-watched, ancient mile-stone; a well; a water-tank
bound up in a bank charter; a Bowling Green sycamore; an ailantus
beside the twin French houses of crooked Commerce Street. And what a
pang to find an old landmark gone! To another it is the sad little iron
arch of the gate of old St. John's at the end of the once-while quaint
St. John's Place, all that is now left of the beautiful pillared and
paneled old church and its English-made wrought-iron fence. To many
it is the loss of the New York sky-line, one of the wonders of the
world--lost, for it has vanished from sight. Now the sky-line is to
be seen only from the water, and the city is no longer approached by
water except by a few; but is entered under the rivers on each side,
by tunnels down into which the human currents are plunged. A positive
thrill, a morning-and-evening thrill that was almost a worship of the
noble and the beautiful, used to sweep over the packed thousands on the
ferry-boats as they gazed at the sky-line.

It is extraordinary how swiftly New York destroys and rebuilds. There
is the story of a distinguished visitor who, driven uptown on the
forenoon of his arrival, was, on his departure in the late afternoon
of the same day, driven downtown over the same route in order that he
might see what changes had meanwhile taken place. The very first vessel
built in New York--it was three hundred years ago--was named in the
very spirit of prophecy, for it was called the _Onrust_ (_Restless_).

Yet it is astonishing how much of interest remains in this iconoclastic
city, although almost everything remains under constant threat of
destruction. Far over toward the North River is one of the threatened
survivals. It is shabby, ancient; indeed, it has been called the
oldest building in New York, though nothing certain is known beyond
1767. But it is very old, and may easily date much further back. It
is called the Clam Broth House, and is on Weehawken Street, which,
closely paralleling West Street, holds its single block of length
north from Christopher. It is a lost and forgotten street, primitively
cobblestoned with the worst pavement in New York, and it holds several
lost and forlorn old houses--low-built houses, with great broad,
sweeping roofs reaching almost to the ground, houses tremulous with
age. Of these the one now called the Clam Broth House, low, squat,
broad-roofed, is the oldest. In a sense the fronts are on West Street,
but all original characteristics have there been bedizenedly lost, and
the ancient aspect is on Weehawken Street.

These were fishermen's houses in ancient days, waterside houses; for
West Street is filled-in ground, and the broad expanse of shipping
space out beyond the street is made land. When these houses were
built, the North River reached their doors, and, so tradition has it,
fishermen actually rowed their boats and drew their shad-seines beneath
this Clam Broth House.

Of a far different order of interest is a demure little church, neat
and trim, on Hudson street. It is built of brick, bright red, with long
red wings stretching oddly away from the rear, with a low, squat tower
of red, and in the midst of gray old houses that hover around in fading
respectability. It is St. Luke's, is a century old, and with it is
connected the most charming custom of New York.

In 1792 a certain John Leake died, leaving a sum to Trinity Church for
the giving forever, to “such poor as shall appear most deserving,” as
many “six-penny wheaten loaves” as the income would buy, and this sweet
and simple dole has ever since been regularly administered, and it
will go on through the centuries, like the ancient English charity at
Winchester, where for eight hundred years bread and ale have been given.

But there is one strictly New York feature about this already old Leake
dole that differentiates it from the dole of Winchester, for it is
still at the original wicket that the Winchester dole is given. There
the custom was instituted, and there it has continued through all
these centuries. But in New York the dole began at Trinity, but after
something more than half a century, as population left the neighborhood
of Trinity, the dole was transferred to St. John's, on Varick Street,
once known as “St. John's in the Fields,” and now, after more than
another half-century, there has come still another removal, and the
dole is given at quaint old St. Luke's. Thus it has already had three
homes, and one wonders how many it will have as the decades and the
centuries move on. One pictures it peripatetically proceeding hither
and thither as further changes come upon the city, the dole for the
poor that never vanish.

A short distance south from St. Luke's, on the opposite side of Hudson
Street, is an open space that is a public playground and a public
garden. It was a graveyard, but a few years ago the city decreed
that it should vanish, with the exception of a monument put up to
commemorate the devotion of firemen who gave their lives for duty in a
fire of the long ago. It was not the graveyard of St. Luke's, although
near, but of farther away St. John's; and it is pleasant to remember
that it was in walking to and fro among the now vanished graves and
tombs that Edgar Allan Poe[66] composed his “Raven.”

Cheerful in its atmosphere--but perhaps this is largely from its
name--is short little Gay Street, leading from Waverley Place,
just around the corner from Sixth Avenue. Immediately beyond this
point--for much of the unexpected still remains in good old Greenwich
Village--Waverley becomes, by branching, a street with four sidewalks;
for both branches hold the name of Waverley. It is hard for people
of to-day to understand the power of literature in the early half
of the last century, when Washington Irving[67] was among the most
prominent citizens, and James Fenimore Cooper[68] was publicly honored,
and admirers of the Waverley Novels made successful demand on the
aldermen to change the name of Sixth Street, where it left Broadway,
to Waverley Place, and to continue it beyond Sixth Avenue, discarding
another name on the way, and at this forking-point to do away with both
Catharine and Elizabeth streets in order to give Waverley its four
sidewalks. Could this be done in these later days with the names, say
of Howells[69] or of Hopkinson Smith![70] Does any one ever propose to
have an “O” put before Henry Street![71]

At the forking-point is a triangular building, archaic in aspect, and
very quiet. It is a dispensary, and an ancient jest of the neighborhood
is, when some stranger asks if it has patients, to reply, “It doesn't
need 'em; it's got money.”

Gay Street is miniature; its length isn't long and its width isn't
wide. It is a street full of the very spirit of old Greenwich, or,
rather, of the old Ninth Ward; for thus the old inhabitants love to
designate the neighborhood, some through not knowing that it was
originally Greenwich Village, and a greater number because they are
not interested in the modern development, poetic, artistic, theatric,
empiric, romantic, sociologic, but are proud of the honored record of
the district as the most American ward of New York City.

In an apartment overlooking a Gay Street corner there died last year a
man who had rented there for thirty-four years. There loomed practical
difficulties for the final exit, the solution involving window and
fire-escape. But the landlord, himself born there, said, “No; he has
always gone in and out like a gentleman, and he shall still go out, for
the last time, as a gentleman,” thereupon he called in carpenter and
mason to cut the wall.

Then some old resident will tell you, pointing out house by house and
name by name, where business men, small manufacturers, politicians, and
office-holders dwelt. And, further reminiscent, he will tell of how,
when a boy, at dawn on each Fourth of July, he used to get out his toy

 [Illustration: =“It has been called the oldest building
                         in New York.”=]                 (_page 185_)

cannon and fire it from a cellar entrance (pointing to the entrance),
and how one Fourth the street was suddenly one shattering crash, two
young students from the old university across Washington Square having
experimentally tossed to the pavement from their garret window a stick
of what was then “a new explosive, dynamite.” No sane and safe Fourths
then!

It is still remembered that some little houses at the farther end
of Gay Street, on Christopher, were occupied by a little colony of
hand-loom weavers from Scotland, who there looked out from these
“windows in Thrums.”[72]

Around two corners from this spot is a curiously picturesque little
bit caused by the street changes of a century ago. It is Patchin
Place, opening from Tenth Street opposite Jefferson Market. The place
is a cul-de-sac, with a double row of little three-story houses, each
looking just like the other, of yellow-painted brick. Each house
has a little area space, each front door is up two steps from its
narrow sidewalk. Each door is of a futuristic green. Each has its
ailantus-tree, making the little nooked place a delightful bower.

Immediately around the corner is the still more curious Milligan Place,
a spot more like a bit of old London than any other in New York. It
is a little nestled space, entered by a barely gate-wide opening from
the busy Sixth Avenue sidewalk. Inside it expands a trifle, just
sufficiently to permit the existence of four little houses, built close
against one another. So narrowly does an edge of brick building come
down beside the entrance that it is literally only the width of the end
of the bricks.

In an instant, going through the entrance that you might pass a
thousand times without noticing, you are miles away, you are decades
away, in a fragment of an old lost lane.

Near by, where Sixth Avenue begins, there is still projective from an
old-time building the sign of the Golden Swan, a lone survival of long
ago. And this is remindful of the cigar-store Indians. Only yesterday
they were legion, now a vanished race. And the sidewalk clocks that
added such interest to the streets, they, too, have gone, banished by
city ordinance.

The conjunction of Seventh Avenue and Greenwich Avenue and Eleventh
Street makes a triangle, at the sharp point of which is a small, low,
and ancient building, fittingly given over to that ancient and almost
vanished trade, horseshoeing. A little brick building with outside
wooden stair stands against and above it as the triangle widens, and
then comes an ancient building a little taller still. And this odd
conglomerate building was all, so you will be told, built in the good
old days for animal houses for one of the earliest menageries! Next
came a period of stage-coaches, with horses housed here. And, as
often in New York, a great shabbiness accompanies the old. Within the
triangle, inside of a tall wooden fence, are several ancient ailantus
trees, remindful that long ago New York knew this locality as--name
full of pleasant implications--“Ailanthus Gardens.” And every spring
Ailanthus Gardens, oblivious to forgetfulness and shabbiness, still
bourgeons green and gay.

An old man, a ghost-of-the-past old man, approached, and, seeing that
we were interested, said abruptly, unexpectedly, “That's Bank Street
over there, where the banks and the bankers came,” thus taking the mind
far back to the time of a yellow-fever flight from what was then the
distant city to what was in reality Greenwich.

Only a block from here, on Seventh Avenue, is a highly picturesque
survival, a long block of three-story dwellings all so uniformly
balconied, from first floor to roof-line, across the entire fronts,
that you see nothing but balconies, with their three stories fronted
with eyelet-pattern balustrades. In front of all the houses is an open
grassy space, and up the face of the balconies run old wistaria-vines.
Each house, through the crisscrossing of upright and lateral lines, is
fronted with nine open square spaces, like Brobdingnagian pigeon-holes.

On West Eleventh Street is a row almost identical in appearance. If
you follow Eleventh Street eastward, and find that it does not cut
across Broadway, you will remember that this comes from the efforts
of Brevoort, an early landowner, to save a grand old tree that stood
there. And then Grace Church gained possession, and the street remained
uncut.

A most striking vanishing hereabouts has been of the hotels. What
an interesting group they were in this part of Broadway! Even the
old Astor, far down town, has gone, only a wrecked and empty remnant
remaining.

But a neighbor of the Astor House is an old-time building whose
loss, frequently threatened, every one who loves noble and beautiful
architecture would deplore--the more than century-old city hall, which
still dominates its surroundings, as it has always dominated, even
though now the buildings round about are of towering height.

Time-mellowed, its history has also mellowed, with myriad associations
and happenings and tales. That a man who was to become Mayor of
New York (it was Fernando Wood) made his first entry into the city
as the hind leg of an elephant of a traveling show, and in that
capacity passed for the first time the city hall, is a story that
out-Whittingtons Whittington.[73]

And noblest and finest of all the associations with the city hall is
one which has to do with a time before the city hall arose; for here,
on the very spot where it stands, George Washington paraded his little
army on a July day in 1776, and with grave solemnity, while they
listened in a solemnity as grave, a document was read to them that had
just been received from Philadelphia and which was forever to be known
as the Declaration of Independence.

It used to be, three quarters of a century ago, that people could go
northward from the city hall on the New York and Harlem Railway, which
built its tracks far down in this direction. It used the Park Avenue
tunnel, which had been built in 1837 for the first horse-car line in
the world. After the railway made Forty-second Street its terminal,
horse-cars again went soberly through the tunnel. What a pleasure to
remember the tinkle, tinkle as they came jerkily jogging through, from
somewhere up Harlemward, and, with quirky variety as to course, to an
end somewhere near University Place! A most oddly usable line.

A few minutes' walk from University Place is one of the most
fascinating spots in New York--“St. Mark's in the Bouwerie,” although
it is actually on Second Avenue and Stuyvesant Street.

The church was built in 1799, but it stands on property that the
mighty Petrus Stuyvesant[74] owned, and on the site of a chapel that
he built, and his tomb is beneath the pavement of the church, and the
tombstone is set in the foundation-wall on the eastern side. There
is an excellent bronze close by, fittingly made in Holland, of this
whimsical, irascible, kind-hearted, clear-headed captain-general and
governor who ruled this New Amsterdam. Nothing else in the city so
gives the smack of age, the relish of the saltness of time, as this old
church built on Stuyvesant's land and holding his bones. For Stuyvesant
was born when Elizabeth reigned in England and when Henry of Navarre,
with his white plume, was King of France. The great New-Yorker was born
in the very year that “Hamlet” was written.[75]

He loved his city, and lived here after the English came and conquered
him and seized the colony.

This highly pictorial old church, broad-fronted, pleasant-porticoed,
stands within a great open graveyard space, green with grass and
sweetly shaded, and its aloofness and beauty are markedly enhanced by
its being set high above the level of the streets.

On Lafayette Street, once Lafayette Place, a quarter of a mile from
St. Mark's, still stands the deserted Astor Library, just bought by
the Y. M. H. A. as a home for immigrants, built three quarters of a
century ago for permanence, but now empty and bare and grim, shorn of
its Rialto-like[76] steps, with closed front, as if harboring secrets
behind its saddening inaccessibility. Once-while stately gate-posts and
gateway, now ruinous, beside the library building, marked the driveway
entrance of a long-vanished Astor home.

All is dreary, dismal, desolate, and the color of the Venetian-like
building has become a sad combination of chocolate brown and dull red.

The tens of thousands of books from here, the literature and art of the
Lenox collection, and the fine foundation of Tilden are united at Fifth
Avenue and Forty-second Street. From what differing sources did these
three mighty foundations spring! One from the tireless industry of a
great lawyer;[77] one from a far-flung fur trade that over a century
ago reached through trackless wilderness to the Pacific;[78] one from
a fortune wrung by exactions from American soldiers of the Revolution,
prisoners of war, who paid all they had in the hope of alleviating
their suffering--a fortune inherited by a man who studied to put it
out for the benefit of mankind in broad charity and helpfulness, in
hospitals and colleges, and in his library, left for public use.[79]

With the old Astor Library so stripped and deserted, one wonders if a
similar fate awaits the stately and palatial building to which it has
gone. Will the new building some day vanish? And similarly the superb
and mighty structures that have in recent years come in connection with
the city's northern sweep?

A curious fate has attended the Lenox Library property. Given to the
city, land and building and contents, the land and building were sold
into private ownership when the consolidation of libraries was decided
upon. The granite stronghold, built to endure forever, was razed, and
where it had stood arose the most beautiful home in New York, which,
gardened in boxwood, its owner filled with priceless treasures. And now
he is dead, and again the land, a building, and costly contents are
willed to the city.

Across from the old Astor Library stood Colonnade Row, a long and
superb line of pillar-fronted grandeur; but only a small part now
remains, with only a few of the fluted Corinthian pillars. All is
shabby and forlorn, but noble even in shabbiness. And the remnant, one
thinks, must shortly fall a victim to the destructive threat that hangs
over everything in our city.

Colonnade Row was built in the eighteen twenties. Washington Irving
lived there. One gathers the impression that Irving, named after
Washington, lived in as many houses as those in which Washington
slept. In the row occurred the wedding of President Tyler,[80] an
event not characterized by modest shrinking from publicity, for after
the ceremony the President and his bride were driven down Broadway in
an open carriage, drawn by four horses, to the Battery, whence a boat
rowed them out to begin their married life on--of all places!--a ship
of war!

It is interesting to find two Virginia-born Presidents of the United
States coming to Lafayette Street; for here dwelt Monroe,[81] he of
the “Doctrine,” during the latter part of his life, at what is now the
northwest corner of Lafayette Street and Prince; and he died there.
Long since the house fell into sheer dinginess and wreck, and a few
months ago was sold to be demolished; but New York may feel pride in
her connection with the American who, following Washington's example,
declared against “entangling ourselves in the broils of Europe, or
suffering the powers of the old world to interfere with the affairs of
the new.”

Near this house Monroe was buried, in the Marble Cemetery on Second
Street, beyond Second Avenue, a spot with high open iron fence in
front and high brick wall behind, with an atmosphere of sedateness and
repose, although a tenement district has come round about. Monroe's
body lay here for a quarter of a century, and then Virginia belatedly
carried it to Virginian soil.

Close by, entered through a narrow tunnel-like entrance at 41-1/2
Second Avenue, is another Marble Cemetery (the Monroe burying-place
is the New York City Marble Cemetery, and this other is the New
York Marble Cemetery), and this second one is quite hidden away in
inconspicuousness, as befits a place which, according to a now barely
decipherable inscription, was established as “a place of interment for
gentlemen,” surely the last word in exclusiveness!

Across the street from the entrance to this cemetery for gentlemen is
a church for the common people, one of the pleasant surprises of a
kind which one frequently comes upon in New York--a building really
distinguished in appearance, yet not noticed or known. A broad flight
of steps stretches across the broad church front. There are tall
pillars and pilasters, excellent iron fencing and gateway. The interior
is all of the color of pale ivory, with much of classic detail and with
a “Walls-of-Troy” pattern along the gallery. There were a score of such
classic churches in New York early in the last century.

Always in finding the unexpected there is charm, as when, the other
day, we came by the merest chance upon “Extra Place”! What a name!
It is a little court nooked out of First Street,--how many New
Yorkers know that there is a First Street in fact and not merely in
theory?--between Second and Third avenues. Extra Place is a stone's
throw in length, a forgotten bit of forlornness, but at its end,
beyond sheds and tall board fencing, are suggestions of pleasant homes
of a distant past, great fireplace chimneys and queer windows, and an
old shade tree, and under the tree a brick-paved walk, formal in its
rectangle, where happy people walked in the long ago, and where once a
garden smiled, but where now no kind of flower grows wild.

The tree of the New York tenements is the ailantus, palm-like in its
youth, brought originally from China for the gardens of the rich. It
grows in discouraging surroundings, is defiant of smoke, does not even
ask to be planted; for, Topsy-like, it “jest grows.” Cut it down, and
it comes up again. It is said to have no insect enemies. An odd point
in its appearance is that every branch points up.

The former extraordinary picturesqueness of the waterfront has gone;
but still there is much there that is strange, and a general odor of
oakum and tar remains. And, leading back from the East-Side waterfront,
narrow, ancient lanes have been preserved, and by these one may enter
the old-time warehouse portion of the city, where still the permeative
smell of drugs or leather or spice differentiates district from
district.

Vanished is many a delightful old name. Pie Woman's Lane became Nassau
Street. Oyster Pasty Alley became Exchange Alley. Clearly, early New
Yorkers were a gustatory folk.

A notable vanishing has within a few months come to Wall Street
itself--the vanishing of the last outward and visible sign of the feud
of Alexander Hamilton[18] and Aaron Burr.[82] Hamilton was the leading
spirit in establishing one bank in the city, and Burr, through a clause
in a water-company charter, established another, and through all
these decades the banks have been rivals. Now they have united their
financial fortunes and become one bank.

An interesting rector of Trinity Church, which looks in such
extraordinary fashion into the narrow gorge of Wall Street, became
over a century ago Bishop of New York, Benjamin Moore, and he is
chiefly interesting, after all, through his early connection with
the then distant region still known as Chelsea, in the neighborhood
of Twenty-third Street and the North River, where he acquired great
land-holdings that had been owned by the English naval captain who had
made his home here and given the locality its name.

Chelsea still holds its own as an interesting neighborhood, mainly
because of its possession of the General Theological Seminary, which
has attracted and held desirable people and given an atmosphere of
quiet seclusion.

The seminary buildings occupy the entire block between Ninth and Tenth
avenues and Twentieth and Twenty-first streets. They are largely of
English style, and there are long stretches of ten-foot garden wall.
Now and then a mortar-boarded student strides hurriedly across an open
space, and now and then a professor paces portentously. The buildings
are mostly of brick, but the oldest is an odd-looking structure
of silver-gray stone. The varied structures unite in effective
conjunction. It may be mentioned that, owing to a Vanderbilt who looked
about for something which in his opinion would set the seminary in the
front rank, its library possesses more ancient Latin Bibles, so it is
believed, than does even the Bodleian.[83]

The chapel stands in the middle of the square, and above it rises
a square Magdalen-like tower,[84] softened by ivy; and, following
a beautiful old custom as it has been followed since the tower was
built, capped and gowned students gather at sunrise on Easter morning
on the top of this tall tower and sing ancient chorals to the music of
trombone and horn.

Chelsea ought to be the most home-like region in New York on account
of its connection with Christmas; for a son of Bishop Moore, Clement
C. Moore,[85] who gave this land to the seminary, and made his own
home in Chelsea, wrote the childhood classic, “'Twas the night before
Christmas.”

In this old-time neighborhood stand not only houses, but
long-established little shops. One for drugs, for example, is marked
as dating back to 1839. But, after all, that is not so old as a great
Fifth Avenue shop which was established in 1826. However, there is this
difference: the Chelsea shops are likely to be on the very spots where
they were first opened, whereas the great shop of Fifth Avenue has
reached its location by move after move, from its beginning on Grand
Street, when that was the fashionable shopping street of the city.

In Chelsea are still to be found the old pineapple-topped newel-posts
of wrought iron, like openwork urns; there are old houses hidden
erratically behind those on the street-front. One in particular remains
in mind, a large old-fashioned dwelling, now reached only by a narrow
and built-over passage, a house that looks like a haunted house, from
its desolate disrepair, its lost loneliness of location.

Chelsea is a region of yellow cats and green shutters, shabby green on
the uncared for and fresh green for the well kept. Old New York used
typically to temper the dog-days behind green slat shutters, or under
shop awnings stretched to the curb, and with brick sidewalks, sprinkled
in the early afternoon from a sprinkling-can in the 'prentice hand.

One of the admirable old houses of Chelsea is that where dwelt that
unquiet spirit, Edwin Forrest,[86] the actor. It is at 436 West
Twenty-second Street, a substantial-looking, square-fronted house, with
a door of a great single panel. And the interior is notable for the
beautiful spiral stair that figured in court in his marital troubles.

There are in Chelsea two more than usually delightful residential
survivals, with the positively delightful old names of Chelsea Cottages
and London Terrace. The cottages are on Twenty-fourth Street, and
the Terrace is on Twenty-third, and each is between Ninth and Tenth
avenues, and both were built three quarters of a century ago.

The cottages are alternating three-story and two-story houses, built
tightly shoulder to shoulder, astonishingly narrow-fronted, each with a
grassy space in front. Taken together, they make one of the last stands
on Manhattan of simple and modest and concerted picturesque living.

The Terrace is a highly distinguished row of high-pilastered houses,
set behind grassy, deep dooryards. There are precisely eighty-eight
three-and-a-half-story pilasters on the front of this stately row.
The houses have a general composite effect of yellowish gray. They
are built on the London plan of the drawing-room on the second floor,
so that those that live there “go down to dinner.” The drawing-rooms
are of pleasant three-windowed spaciousness, extending across each
house-front.

The terrace is notable in high-stooped New York in having the
entrance-doors on virtually the sidewalk level. That the familiar
and almost omnipresent high-stooped houses of the nineteenth century
ought all to have been constructed without the long flight of outside
stone steps characteristic of the city is shown by a most interesting
development on East Nineteenth Street, between Third Avenue and
Irving Place. There the houses have been excellently and artistically
remodeled, with highly successful and highly satisfactory results. With
comparatively slight cost, there has been alteration of commonplaceness
into beauty.

The high front steps have been removed, and the front doors put down
to where they ought to be. Most of the house-fronts have been given a
stucco coat, showing what could be done with myriad commonplace houses
of the city.

The houses are colorfully painted tawny red or cream or gray or
pale pink or an excellent shade of brown. You think of it as the
happiest-looking street in New York. Solid shutters add their effect,
some the green of bronze patina. There are corbeled gables. Some
of the roofs are red-tiled. Two little two-story stables have been
transformed by little Gothic doors. There are vines. There are
box-bushes. There are flowers in terra-cotta boxes on low area walls.
Here and there is a delightful little iron balcony, here and there a
gargoyle. On one roof two or three storks are gravely standing! There
are charming area-ways, and plane-trees have been planted for the
entire block. And here the vanishing is of the undesirable.

On Stuyvesant Square, near by, are the Quaker buildings, standing in an
atmosphere of peace which they themselves have largely made--buildings
of red brick with white trimmings, and with a fine air of gentleness
and repose; a little group that, so one hopes, is very far indeed from
the vanishing point.

And there is fine old Gramercy Park, whose dignified homes in the
past were owned by men of the greatest prominence. Many of the great
homes still remain, and the central space, tall, iron-fenced, is still
exclusively locked from all but the privileged, the dwellers in the
houses on the park. And there, amid the grass and the trees, sedate
little children, with little white or black dogs, play sedately for
hours.

We went for luncheon, with two recent woman's college graduates, all
familiar with New York, into the club house that was the home of Samuel
J. Tilden. Our companions were unusually excellent examples of the best
that the colleges produce; they were of American ancestry. But any
New-Yorker will feel that much of the spirit of the city has vanished,
that much of the honored and intimate tradition has gone, when we
say that, it being mentioned that this had been the Tilden home, it
developed that neither of them had ever heard of Samuel J. Tilden.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What is the authors' attitude toward the past?

     2. What does the essay say concerning change?

     3. In what spirit does the essay mention old buildings?

     4. What does the essay prophesy for the future?

     5. Tell the origin of some of the street names in New York City.

     6. What does the essay say concerning the influence of people who
        are now dead?

     7. Point out examples of pleasant suggestion.

     8. Show where the writers express originality of thought.

     9. What is the plan of the essay?

    10. What advantage does the essay gain by making so frequent
        reference to names of people?

    11. How do the writers gain coherence?

    12. Point out pleasing allusions.

    13. What spirit does the essay arouse?

    14. What do the writers think concerning the present?


                    SUBJECTS FOR WRITTEN IMITATION

        1. Things That Have Vanished     11. A Trip About Town
        2. My Own Town Years Ago         12. Some Curious Buildings
        3. Old Buildings                 13. The Highway
        4. The People of a Former Day    14. The Founding of My Town
        5. Legacies                      15. Early Settlers
        6. Street Names                  16. My Ancestors
        7. The Story of a Street         17. Family Relics
        8. The Story of an Old House     18. A Walk in the Country
        9. The Farm                      19. The Making of a City
       10. Eternal Change                20. Main Street


                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Your object is not to tell what you do on any walk that you
choose to take, nor is it to tell what you see. You are not to try to
inform people concerning facts. You are to give them pleasing
impressions that come to you as you meditate on something that
has changed.

In order to do this you must, first of all, have a real experience,
both in visiting a place and in feeling emotion. Then you must make a
plan for your writing, so that you will take your reader just as easily
and just as naturally as possible over the ground that you wish him to
visit in imagination.

Make many allusions to people, to books, to events, and to anything
else that will bring back the past vividly. Make that past appear in
all its charm. You can do this best if your emotion is real, and if
you pay considerable attention to your style of writing. Use many
adjectives and adjective expressions. Above all, try to find words that
will be highly suggestive.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[65] Henry James (1843-1916). An American novelist noted for strikingly
analytical novels. His boyhood home was on Washington Square.

[66] Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849). Perhaps the most widely known
American poet and short story writer. _The Raven_ is the best-known
poem by any American poet. Poe wrote the poem while he was living in
New York City.

[67] Washington Irving (1783-1859). The genial American essayist,
biographer and historian. He spent much of his time in New York City.

[68] James Fenimore Cooper (1789-1851). The first great American
novelist, best known for his famous “Leatherstocking Tales.”

[69] William Dean Howells (1837-1920). A celebrated modern novelist,
noted for his realistic pictures of life.

[70] F. Hopkinson Smith (1838-1915). An American civil engineer, artist
and short story writer. _Colonel Carter of Cartersville_ is one of his
best-known books.

[71] O. Henry (William Sidney Porter) (1867-1910). A popular American
short story writer, noted for originality of style and treatment.

[72] “Windows in Thrums”. The title of a novel by James Matthew Barrie
(1860.--) is _A Window in Thrums_, _Thrums_ being an imaginary village
in Scotland, inhabited principally by humble but devout weavers.

[73] Sir Richard Whittington (1358-1423). Three times Lord Mayor of
London; the hero of the legend of _Whittington and His Cat_.

[74] Petrus Stuyvesant (1592-1672). The last of the Dutch governors of
New York. In 1664 he surrendered New York to the English. His farm was
called “The Bouwerij”.

[75] _Hamlet._ While the date of _Hamlet_ can not be told with
certainty it is reasonably sure that Shakespeare wrote his version of
an older play about 1592.

[76] Rialto. A celebrated bridge in Venice, Italy. It has a series of
steps.

[77] Samuel J. Tilden (1814-1886). An American lawyer, at one time
Governor of New York. As candidate for the Presidency he won 250,000
more votes than Rutherford B. Hayes, but lost the election in the
Electoral College.

[78] John Jacob Astor (1763-1848). A German immigrant who, through the
founding of a great fur business, established the Astor fortune. He
bequeathed $400,000 for the Astor Library.

[79] James Lenox (1800-1880). An American philanthropist who founded
the great Lenox Library.

[80] John Tyler (1790-1862). Tenth President of the United States.

[81] James Monroe (1758-1831). Fifth President of the United States;
originator of the “Monroe Doctrine” policy designed to prevent foreign
interference in affairs in North or South America.

[82] Alexander Hamilton (1757-1804). A great American statesman and
financier. He was killed in a duel with Aaron Burr (1756-1836), an
American politician.

[83] The Bodleian Library. The great library of Oxford University,
England, named after Sir Thomas Bodley, one of its founders.

[84] Magdalen College. One of the colleges of Oxford University,
England. It is noted for an especially beautiful tower.

[85] Clement C. Moore (1779-1863). A wealthy American scholar and
teacher who wrote the poem, _'Twas the Night Before Christmas_.

[86] Edwin Forrest (1806-1872). A great American actor, noted for his
rendition of Shakespeare.




                    THE SONGS OF THE CIVIL WAR[87]
                          By BRANDER MATTHEWS


    _(1852--). One of the most influential American critics and
    essayists, Professor of Dramatic Literature in Columbia University.
    He was one of the founders of The Authors' Club, and The Players,
    and a leader in organizing the American Copyright League. He is
    a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters. He is
    the author of works that illustrate many types of literature,
    including novels, short stories, essays, poems and plays. Among his
    books are:_ A Story of the Sea, and Other Stories; Pen and Ink;
    Americanisms and Briticisms; The Story of a Story; Vignettes of
    Manhattan; His Father's Son; Aspects of Fiction; Essays in English;
    The American of the Future.

  =When companionable people meet in pleasant converse, whether before
  the open fire at home, or in chance gatherings at any place, they
  tell one another about the interesting experiences that they have
  had or the discoveries that they have made. If you could place on
  paper what any one of them says, except in narration, and if you
  could, at the same time, show the feeling and the spirit of the
  speaker,--if you could in some way transfer the personality of the
  speaker to the paper,--you would, in all probability, produce an
  essay.=

  =The author of _The Songs of the Civil War_ has learned some
  interesting facts concerning our national songs. He communicates
  those facts as he would to a company of friends, indicating
  throughout his remarks his own interests and beliefs. His words
  are the pleasant words of friendship,--not the formal giving of
  information that characterizes most encyclopedia articles. That
  part of his essay which is given here is sufficient to indicate the
  charm of his presentation.=


A national hymn is one of the things which cannot be made to order.
No man has ever yet sat him down and taken up his pen and said, “I
will write a national hymn,” and composed either words or music which
a nation was willing to take for its own. The making of the song of
the people is a happy accident, not to be accomplished by taking
thought. It must be the result of fiery feeling long confined, and
suddenly finding vent in burning words or moving strains. Sometimes the
heat and the pressure of emotion have been fierce enough and intense
enough to call forth at once both words and music, and to weld them
together indissolubly once and for all. Almost always the maker of the
song does not suspect the abiding value of his work; he has wrought
unconsciously, moved by a power within; he has written for immediate
relief to himself, and with no thought of fame or the future; he has
builded better than he knew. The great national lyric is the result
of the conjunction of the hour and the man. Monarch cannot command
it, and even poets are often powerless to achieve it. No one of the
great national hymns has been written by a great poet. But for his
single immortal lyric, neither the author of the “Marseillaise”[88]
nor the author of the “Wacht am Rhein”[89] would have his line in the
biographical dictionaries. But when a song has once taken root in the
hearts of a people, time itself is powerless against it. The flat and
feeble “Partant pour la Syrie,” which a filial fiat made the hymn of
imperial France, had to give way to the strong and virile notes of
the “Marseillaise,” when need was to arouse the martial spirit of the
French in 1870. The noble measures of “God Save the King,” as simple
and dignified a national hymn as any country can boast, lift up the
hearts of the English people; and the brisk tune of the “British
Grenadiers” has swept away many a man into the ranks of the recruiting
regiment. The English are rich in war tunes and the pathetic “Girl I
Left Behind Me” encourages and sustains both those who go to the front
and those who remain at home. Here in the United States we have no
“Marseillaise,” no “God Save the King,” no “Wacht am Rhein”; we have
but “Yankee Doodle” and the “Star-spangled Banner.” More than one
enterprising poet, and more than one aspiring musician, has volunteered
to take the contract to supply the deficiency; as yet no one has
succeeded. “Yankee Doodle” we got during the revolution, and the
“Star-spangled Banner” was the gift of the War of 1812; from the Civil
War we have received at least two war songs which, as war songs simply,
are stronger and finer than either of these--“John Brown's Body” and
“Marching Through Georgia.”

Of the lyrical outburst which the war called forth but little trace is
now to be detected in literature except by special students. In most
cases neither words nor music have had vitality enough to survive a
quarter of a century. Chiefly, indeed, two things only survive, one
Southern and the other Northern; one a war-cry in verse, the other
a martial tune: one is the lyric “My Maryland” and the other is the
marching song “John Brown's Body.” The origin and development of the
latter, the rude chant to which a million of the soldiers of the Union
kept time, is uncertain and involved in dispute. The history of the
former may be declared exactly, and by the courtesy of those who did
the deed--for the making of a war song is of a truth a deed at arms--I
am enabled to state fully the circumstances under which it was written,
set to music, and first sung before the soldiers of the South.

“My Maryland” was written by Mr. James R. Randall, a native of
Baltimore, and now residing in Augusta, Georgia. The poet was a
professor of English literature and the classics in Poydras College
at Pointe Coupee, on the Faussee Riviere, in Louisiana, about seven
miles from the Mississippi; and there in April, 1861, he read in the
New Orleans _Delta_ the news of the attack on the Massachusetts troops
as they passed through Baltimore. “This account excited me greatly,”
Mr. Randall wrote in answer to my request for information; “I had
long been absent from my native city, and the startling event there
inflamed my mind. That night I could not sleep, for my nerves were all
unstrung, and I could not dismiss what I had read in the paper from my
mind. About midnight I rose, lit a candle, and went to my desk. Some
powerful spirit appeared to possess me, and almost involuntarily I
proceeded to write the song of 'My Maryland.' I remember that the idea
appeared to first take shape as music in the brain--some wild air that
I cannot now recall. The whole poem was dashed off rapidly when once
begun. It was not composed in cold blood, but under what may be called
a conflagration of the senses, if not an inspiration of the intellect.
I was stirred to a desire for some way linking my name with that of my
native State, if not 'with my land's language'. But I never expected to
do this with one single, supreme effort, and no one was more surprised
than I was at the widespread and instantaneous popularity of the lyric
I had been so strangely stimulated to write.” Mr. Randall read the poem
the next morning to the college boys, and at their suggestion sent it
to the _Delta_, in which it was first printed, and from which it was
copied into nearly every Southern journal. “I did not concern myself
much about it, but very soon, from all parts of the country, there was
borne to me, in my remote place of residence, evidence that I had made
a great hit, and that, whatever might be the fate of the Confederacy,
the song would survive it.”

Published in the last days of April, 1861, when every eye was fixed
on the border States, the stirring stanzas of the Tyrtæan bard[90]
appeared in the very nick of time. There is often a feeling afloat
in the minds of men, undefined and vague for want of one to give it
form, and held in solution, as it were, until a chance word dropped
in the ear of a poet suddenly crystallizes this feeling into song,
in which all may see clearly and sharply reflected what in their own
thought was shapeless and hazy. It was Mr. Randall's good fortune to
be the instrument through which the South spoke. By a natural reaction
his burning lines helped to fire the Southern heart. To do their work
well, his words needed to be wedded to music. Unlike the authors of
the “Star-spangled Banner” and the “Marseillaise,” the author of “My
Maryland” had not written it to fit a tune already familiar. It was
left for a lady of Baltimore to lend the lyric the musical wings it
needed to enable it to reach every camp-fire of the Southern armies. To
the courtesy of this lady, then Miss Hetty Cary, and now the wife of
Professor H. Newell Martin, of Johns Hopkins University, I am indebted
for a picturesque description of the marriage of the words to the
music, and of the first singing of the song before the Southern troops.

The house of Mrs. Martin's father was the headquarters for the Southern
sympathizers of Baltimore. Correspondence, money, clothing, supplies of
all kinds went thence through the lines to the young men of the city
who had joined the Confederate army. “The enthusiasm of the girls who
worked and of the 'boys' who watched for their chance to slip through
the lines to Dixie's land found vent and inspiration in such patriotic
songs as could be made or adapted to suit our needs. The glee club
was to hold its meeting in our parlors one evening early in June,
and my sister, Miss Jenny Cary, being the only musical member of the
family, had charge of the program on the occasion. With a school-girl's
eagerness to score a success, she resolved to secure some new and
ardent expression of feelings that by this time were wrought up to the
point of explosion. In vain she searched through her stock of songs and
airs--nothing seemed intense enough to suit her. Aroused by her tone
of despair, I came to the rescue with the suggestion that she should
adapt the words of 'Maryland, my Maryland,' which had been constantly
on my lips since the appearance of the lyric a few days before in the
South. I produced the paper and began declaiming the verses. 'Lauriger
Horatius!'[91] she exclaimed, and in a flash the immortal song found
voice in the stirring air so perfectly adapted to it. That night, when
her contralto voice rang out the stanzas, the refrain rolled forth from
every throat present without pause or preparation; and the enthusiasm
communicated itself with such effect to a crowd assembled beneath our
open windows as to endanger seriously the liberties of the party.”

“Lauriger Horatius” had long been a favorite college song, and it had
been introduced into the Cary household by Mr. Burton N. Harrison,
then a Yale student. The air to which it is sung is used also for a
lovely German lyric, “Tannenbaum, O Tannenbaum,” which Longfellow has
translated “O Hemlock Tree.” The transmigration of tunes is too large
and fertile a subject for me to do more here than refer to it. The
taking of the air of a jovial college song to use as the setting of a
fiery war-lyric may seem strange and curious, but only to those who are
not familiar with the adventures and transformations a tune is often
made to undergo. Hopkinson's[92] “Hail Columbia!” for example, was
written to the tune of the “President's March,” just as Mrs. Howe's[93]
“Battle Hymn of the Republic” was written to “John Brown's Body.” The
“Wearing of the Green,” of the Irishman, is sung to the same air as
the “Benny Havens, O!” of the West-Pointer. The “Star-spangled Banner”
has to make shift with the second-hand music of “Anacreon in Heaven,”
while our other national air, “Yankee Doodle,” uses over the notes of
an old English nursery rhyme, “Lucy Locket,” once a personal lampoon in
the days of the “Beggars' Opera,”[94] and now surviving in the “Baby's
Opera” of Mr. Walter Crane.[95] “My Country, 'tis of Thee,” is set to
the truly British tune of “God Save the King,” the origin of which is
doubtful, as it is claimed by the French and the Germans as well as
the English. In the hour of battle a war-tune is subject to the right
of capture, and, like the cannon taken from the enemy, it is turned
against its maker.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Why cannot a national hymn be made to order?

     2. Why is it true that the great national hymns have not been
        written by great poets?

     3. What establishes the worth of a national hymn?

     4. Name the best national hymns of the United States.

     5. What are some of the best national hymns of other countries?

     6. What type of music is necessary for a good national hymn?

     7. Tell the story of the origin of _My Maryland_.

     8. What sources gave rise to the music of many of our national
        hymns?

     9. Explain the last sentence of the essay.

    10. Point out the respects in which the essay differs from an
        encyclopedia article.




                        DIRECTIONS12277 FOR WRITING

When you have chosen a subject consult encyclopedias and other works
of reference and find out all you can that is peculiarly interesting
to you. Do not make any attempt to record all the facts that you may
learn. Select those that make some deep appeal to you and that will
be likely to have unusual interest for others. When you write do all
that you can to avoid the encyclopedia method. Write in a pleasantly
familiar manner that will carry your interests and your personality.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[87] From “Pen and Ink” by Brander Matthews. Copyright, 1888, by
Longmans. Printed here by special permission of Professor Matthews.

[88] Author of the _Marseillaise_. Rouget de Lisle (1760-1836).
An enthusiastic French Captain who composed the _Marseillaise_ at
Strasburg on April 24, 1792, as a song for the Army of the Rhine.

[89] Author of the _Wacht am Rhein_. Max. Schneckenburger (1819-1849).

[90] Tyrtæan Bard. Tyrtæus (7th century B.C.) was an unknown crippled
Greek school teacher who wrote songs of such power that they inspired
the Spartans to victory.

[91] Lauriger Horatius. The first words of a well-known college song
written in Latin.

[92] Joseph Hopkinson (1770-1842). Author of _Hail Columbia!_ He was
the son of Francis Hopkinson who signed the Declaration of Independence.

[93] Julia Ward Howe (1819-1910). Author of the _Battle Hymn of the
Republic_, which she wrote in 1861 as the result of a visit to a great
camp near Washington.

[94] _Beggars' Opera_. An opera written by John Gay (1685-1732). The
songs in the opera made use of well-known Scotch and English tunes. The
opera itself is a satire on dishonesty in public life.

[95] Walter Crane (1845-1915). An English painter and producer of
children's books.




                LOCOMOTION IN THE TWENTIETH CENTURY[96]
                            By H. G. WELLS


    _(1866--). A leading novelist, essayist and historian. Through
    his energy and high ability he won his way to a place in the
    educational world, and ultimately to a commanding position in the
    literary world. He writes with unusual vigor and originality. Some
    of his most stimulating books are_ The Time Machine; The War of
    the Worlds; When the Sleeper Wakes; Anticipations; Tono Bungay;
    The Future of America; Social Forces in England and America; The
    History of the World.

  =Some essays go beyond the world of little things and set forward
  their writers' meditations on matters of great import. Such essays
  look back across the whole field of history or look forward into
  the remoteness of the future. In essays of this kind Mr. H. G.
  Wells has done much to stimulate thought.=

  =In the selection that follows Mr. Wells traces the development of
  locomotion from the days of wagons to the days of steam. At the
  close of the selection Mr. Wells suggests to the reader that the
  advance to be made in the future may be as great as that which has
  been made in the past.=


The beginning of this twentieth century happens to coincide with a very
interesting phase in that great development of means of land transit
that has been the distinctive feature (speaking materially) of the
nineteenth century. The nineteenth century, when it takes its place
with the other centuries in the chronological charts of the future,
will, if it needs a symbol, almost inevitably have as that symbol a
steam-engine running upon a railway. This period covers the first
experiments, the first great developments, and the complete elaboration
of that mode of transit, and the determination of nearly all the broad
features of this century's history may be traced directly or indirectly
to that process. And since an interesting light is thrown upon the new
phases in land locomotion that are now beginning, it will be well to
begin this forecast with a retrospect, and to revise very shortly the
history of the addition of steam travel to the resources of mankind.

A curious and profitable question arises at once. How is it that the
steam locomotive appeared at the time it did, and not earlier in the
history of the world?

Because it was not invented. But why was it not invented? Not for
want of a crowning intellect, for none of the many minds concerned
in the development strikes one--as the mind of Newton, Shakespeare,
or Darwin[97] strikes one--as being that of an unprecedented man. It
is not that the need for the railway and steam-engine had only just
arisen, and--to use one of the most egregiously wrong and misleading
phrases that ever dropped from the lips of man--the demand created
the supply; it was quite the other way about. There was really no
urgent demand for such things at the time; the current needs of the
European world seem to have been fairly well served by coach and
diligence in 1800, and, on the other hand, every administrator of
intelligence in the Roman and Chinese empires must have felt an urgent
need for more rapid methods of transit than those at his disposal.
Nor was the development of the steam locomotive the result of any
sudden discovery of steam. Steam, and something of the mechanical
possibilities of steam, had been known for two thousand years; it had
been used for pumping water, opening doors, and working toys before
the Christian era. It may be urged that this advance was the outcome
of that new and more systematic handling of knowledge initiated by
Lord Bacon[98] and sustained by the Royal Society;[99] but this does
not appear to have been the case, though no doubt the new habits of
mind that spread outward from that center played their part. The men
whose names are cardinal in the history of this development invented,
for the most part, in a quite empirical way, and Trevithick's[100]
engine was running along its rails and Evans'[101] boat was walloping
up the Hudson a quarter of a century before Carnot[102] expounded his
general proposition. There were no such deductions from principles
to application as occur in the story of electricity to justify our
attribution of the steam-engine to the scientific impulse. Nor does
this particular invention seem to have been directly due to the new
possibilities of reducing, shaping, and casting iron, afforded by
the substitution of coal for wood in iron works, through the greater
temperature afforded by a coal fire. In China coal has been used in the
reduction of iron for many centuries. No doubt these new facilities did
greatly help the steam-engine in its invasion of the field of common
life, but quite certainly they were not sufficient to set it going. It
was, indeed, not one cause, but a very complex and unprecedented series
of causes, set the steam locomotive going. It was indirectly, and in
another way, that the introduction of coal became the decisive factor.
One peculiar condition of its production in England seems to have
supplied just one ingredient that had been missing for two thousand
years in the group of conditions that were necessary before the steam
locomotive could appear.

This missing ingredient was a demand for some comparatively simple,
profitable machine, upon which the elementary principles of steam
utilization could be worked out. If one studies Stephenson's
“Rocket”[103] in detail, as one realizes its profound complexity,
one begins to understand how impossible it would have been for that
structure to have come into existence _de novo_,[104] however urgently
the world had need of it. But it happened that the coal needed
to replace the dwindling forests of this small and exceptionally
rain-saturated country occurs in low, hollow basins overlying clay,
and not, as in China and the Alleghenies, for example, on high-lying
outcrops, that can be worked as chalk is worked in England. From this
fact it followed that some quite unprecedented pumping appliances
became necessary, and the thoughts of practical men were turned thereby
to the long-neglected possibilities of steam. Wind was extremely
inconvenient for the purpose of pumping, because in these latitudes it
is inconstant: it was costly, too, because at any time the laborers
might be obliged to sit at the pit's mouth for weeks together,
whistling for a gale or waiting for the water to be got under again.
But steam had already been used for pumping upon one or two estates
in England--rather as a toy than in earnest--before the middle of the
seventeenth century, and the attempt to employ it was so obvious as
to be practically unavoidable.[105] The water trickling into the coal
measures[106] acted, therefore, like water trickling upon chemicals
that have long been mixed together, dry and inert. Immediately the
latent reactions were set going. Savery,[11] Newcome,[107] a host of
other workers culminating in Watt,[108] working always by steps that
were at least so nearly obvious as to give rise again and again to
simultaneous discoveries, changed this toy of steam into a real,
a commercial thing, developed a trade in pumping-engines, created
foundries and a new art of engineering, and, almost unconscious
of what they were doing, made the steam locomotive a well-nigh
unavoidable consequence. At last, after a century of improvement on
pumping-engines, there remained nothing but the very obvious stage of
getting the engine that had been developed on wheels and out upon the
ways of the world.

Ever and ever again during the eighteenth century an engine would be
put upon the roads and pronounced a failure--one monstrous Palæoferric
creature[109] was visible on a French high-road as early as 1769--but
by the dawn of the nineteenth century the problem had very nearly got
itself solved. By 1804 Trevithick had a steam locomotive indisputably
in motion and almost financially possible, and from his hands it
puffed its way, slowly at first, and then, under Stephenson, faster
and faster, to a transitory empire over the earth. It was a steam
locomotive--but for all that it was primarily _a steam-engine for
pumping_ adapted to a new end; it was a steam-engine whose ancestral
stage had developed under conditions that were by no means exacting in
the matter of weight. And from that fact followed a consequence that
has hampered railway travel and transport very greatly, and that is
tolerated nowadays only through a belief in its practical necessity.
The steam locomotive was all too huge and heavy for the high-road--it
had to be put upon rails. And so clearly linked are steam-engines and
railways in our minds, that, in common language now, the latter implies
the former. But, indeed, it is the result of accidental impediments, of
avoidable difficulties, that we travel to-day on rails.

Railway traveling is at best a compromise. The quite conceivable ideal
of locomotive convenience, so far as travelers are concerned, is surely
a highly mobile conveyance capable of traveling easily and swiftly to
any desired point, traversing, at a reasonably controlled pace, the
ordinary roads and streets, and having access for higher rates of speed
and long-distance traveling to specialized ways restricted to swift
traffic and possibly furnished with guide rails. For the collection
and delivery of all sorts of perishable goods also the same system is
obviously altogether superior to the existing methods. Moreover, such
a system would admit of that secular progress in engines and vehicles
that the stereotyped conditions of the railway have almost completely
arrested, because it would allow almost any new pattern to be put at
once upon the ways without interference with the established traffic.
Had such an ideal been kept in view from the first, the traveler would
now be able to get through his long-distance journeys at a pace of from
seventy miles or more an hour without changing, and without any of the
trouble, waiting, expense, and delay that arise between the household
or hotel and the actual rail. It was an ideal that must have been at
least possible to an intelligent person fifty years ago, and, had it
been resolutely pursued, the world, instead of fumbling from compromise
to compromise as it always has done, and as it will do very probably
for many centuries yet, might have been provided to-day, not only with
an infinitely more practicable method of communication, but with one
capable of a steady and continual evolution from year to year.

But there was a more obvious path of development and one immediately
cheaper, and along that path went short-sighted Nineteenth
Century Progress, quite heedless of the possibility of ending in
a _cul-de-sac_.[110] The first locomotives, apart from the heavy
tradition of their ancestry, were, like all experimental machinery,
needlessly clumsy and heavy, and their inventors, being men of
insufficient faith, instead of working for lightness and smoothness
of motion, took the easier course of placing them upon the tramways
that were already in existence--chiefly for the transit of heavy goods
over soft roads. And from that followed a very interesting and curious
result.

These tram-lines very naturally had exactly the width of an ordinary
cart, a width prescribed by the strength of one horse. Few people saw
in the locomotive anything but a cheap substitute for horseflesh,
or found anything incongruous in letting the dimensions of a horse
determine the dimensions of an engine. It mattered nothing that from
the first the passenger was ridiculously cramped, hampered, and
crowded in the carriage. He had always been cramped in a coach, and
it would have seemed “Utopian”[111]--a very dreadful thing indeed
to our grandparents--to propose travel without cramping. By mere
inertia the horse-cart gauge--the 4 foot 8-1/2 inch gauge--_nemine
contradicente_,[112] established itself in the world, and now
everywhere the train is dwarfed to a scale that limits alike its
comfort, power, and speed. Before every engine, as it were, trots the
ghost of a superseded horse, refuses most resolutely to trot faster
than fifty miles an hour, and shies and threatens catastrophe at every
point and curve. That fifty miles an hour, most authorities are agreed,
is the limit of our speed for land travel so far as existing conditions
go.[113] Only a revolutionary reconstruction of the railways or the
development of some new competing method of land travel can carry us
beyond that.

People of to-day take the railways for granted as they take sea and
sky; they were born in a railway world, and they expect to die in one.
But if only they will strip from their eyes the most blinding of all
influences, acquiescence in the familiar, they will see clearly enough
that this vast and elaborate railway system of ours, by which the whole
world is linked together, is really only a vast system of trains of
horse-wagons and coaches drawn along rails by pumping-engines upon
wheels. Is that, in spite of its present vast extension, likely to
remain the predominant method of land locomotion, even for so short a
period as the next hundred years?


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What, according to Mr. Wells, was the distinctive feature of the
        nineteenth century?

     2. Why did steam locomotion appear when it did?

     3. How many of the principles of steam locomotion had been known
        before the nineteenth century?

     4. Name all the causes that contributed to the development of steam
        locomotion.

     5. Explain the relation between the mining of coal and steam
        locomotion.

     6. What characteristics of wagons appear in steam locomotives?

     7. In what ways is modern steam locomotion unsatisfactory?

     8. What are some of the possibilities for future locomotion?

     9. On what fields of information is the essay based?

    10. What are the characteristics of Mr. Wells' style?




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Before you can write upon any such subject as the one upon
which Mr. Wells wrote it will be necessary for you to obtain a wide
amount of information. Go to any encyclopedia and find lines along
which you can investigate further. Then consult special books that
you may obtain in a good library. When you have gained full information
remember that it is your business not to transmit the
information that you have gained, but to put down on paper the
thoughts to which the information has led you. Try to show the
relation between the past and the present, and to indicate some
forecast for the future. Do all this in a pleasantly straightforward
style as though you were talking earnestly.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[96] From “Anticipations” by H. G. Wells. Copyright by the North
American Review Publishing Company, 1901; copyright by Harper and
Brother, 1902.

[97] Newton, Shakespeare, or Darwin. Sir Isaac Newton (1642-1727). A
great English mathematician, especially noted for his establishment of
knowledge of the law of gravitation. William Shakespeare (1564-1616).
The great English dramatist, regarded as the greatest of English
writers. Charles Darwin (1809-1882). The English naturalist, who
established a theory of evolution. Three of the most intellectual men
of all time.

[98] Sir Francis Bacon (1561-1626). A great English philosopher, who
established the inductive study of science, that is, study through
investigation and experiment.

[99] The Royal Society. Established about 1660 in London, England,
for the study of science. It has had a great influence in developing
scientific knowledge.

[100] Richard Trevithick (1771-1833). An English inventor who did much
to improve the steam engine. In 1801 his locomotive conveyed the first
passengers ever carried by steam.

[101] Oliver Evans (1755-1819). An American inventor who was one of the
first to use steam at high pressure.

[102] Sadi Carnot (1796-1832). A French physicist whose “principle”
concerns the development of power through the use of heat.

[103] Stephenson's Rocket. A locomotive made in 1829 by George
Stephenson (1781-1848), which was so successful that it won a prize of
£500. Stephenson was one of the most potent forces in developing steam
locomotion.

[104] _De Novo._ As something entirely new.

[105] It might have been used in the same way in Italy in the first
century, had not the grandiose taste for aqueducts prevailed.

[106] And also into the Cornwall mines, be it noted.

[107] Captain Thomas Savery (1650?-1715). An English engineer who made
one of the first steam engines in 1705, working in connection with
Thomas Newcome.

[108] James Watt (1736-1819). A Scotch inventor who in 1765 perfected
the condensing steam engine.

[109] Palæoferric creature. Ancient iron creature.

[110] _Cul-de-sac._ A passage closed at one end.

[111] Utopian. In 1516 Sir Thomas More (1478-1535) wrote about an
island called Utopia on which was an ideal government. The word
“Utopian” means “ideal beyond hope of attainment”.

[112] _Nemine contradicente._ No one saying anything against it.

[113] It might be worse. If the biggest horses had been Shetland
ponies, we should be traveling now in railway carriages to hold two
each side at a maximum speed of perhaps twenty miles an hour. There is
hardly any reason, beyond this tradition of the horse, why the railway
carriage should not be even nine or ten feet wide, the width that is,
of the smallest room in which people can live in comfort, hung on such
springs and wheels as would effectually destroy all vibration, and
furnished with all the equipment of comfortable chambers.




                         THE WRITING OF ESSAYS
                         By CHARLES S. BROOKS


    _(1878--). After some years of business life, following his
    graduation from Yale, Mr. Brooks turned entirely to literary work.
    He has written_ A Journey to Bagdad; Three Pippins and Cheese to
    Come; Chimney-Pot Papers. _During the World War he served with the
    Department of State in Washington._

  =Here is a delightful, easy-going essay that presents most
  effectively the ideals and the methods of essay writing.=

  =An essayist, Mr. Brooks says, has no great literary purpose to
  accomplish: he is a reader, a thinker, a person who is interested
  in all sorts of subjects just because they are interesting. He
  writes of the little things in life because he loves them. He is
  essentially a lover of books and of libraries; one who dwells in
  the companionship of pleasant thoughts; one who gives us a sort of
  happy gossip that comes across the years, redolent with the charm
  of personality.=


An essayist needs a desk and a library near at hand, because an essay
is a kind of back-stove cookery. A novel needs a hot fire, so to speak.
A dozen chapters bubble in their turn above the reddest coals, while
an essay simmers over a little flame. Pieces of this and that, an
odd carrot, as it were, a left-over potato, a pithy bone, discarded
trifles, are tossed in from time to time to feed the composition. Raw
paragraphs, when they have stewed all night, at last become tender to
the fork. An essay, therefore, cannot be written hurriedly on the knee.
Essayists, as a rule, chew their pencils. Their desks are large and
are always in disorder. There is a stack of books on the clock-shelf;
others are pushed under the bed. Matches, pencils, and bits of paper
mark a hundred references. When an essayist goes out from his lodging
he wears the kind of overcoat that holds a book in every pocket; his
sagging pockets proclaim him. He is a bulging person, so stuffed
even in his dress with the ideas of others that his own leanness
is concealed. An essayist keeps a note-book and he thumbs it for
forgotten thoughts. Nobody is safe from him, for he steals from every
one he meets. Like the man in the old poem, he relies on his memory for
his wit.

An essayist is not a mighty traveler. He does not run to grapple with
a roaring lion. He desires neither typhoon nor tempest. He is content
in his harbor to listen to the storm upon the rocks, if now and then
by a lucky chance he can shelter some one from the wreck. His hands
are not red with revolt against the world. He has glanced upon the
thoughts of many men, and as opposite philosophies point upon the
truth, he is modest with his own and tolerant of others. He looks at
the stars and, knowing in what a dim immensity we travel, he writes
of little things beyond dispute. There are enough to weep upon the
shadows; he, like a dial, marks the light. The small clatter of the
city beneath his window, the cry of peddlers, children chalking their
games upon the pavement, laundry dancing on the roofs, and smoke in the
winter's wind--these are the things he weaves into the fabric of his
thoughts. Or sheep upon the hillside, if his window is so lucky, or a
sunny meadow is a profitable speculation. And so, while the novelist
is struggling up a dizzy mountain, straining through the tempest to
see the kingdoms of the world, behold the essayist, snug at home,
content with little sights! He is a kind of poet--a poet whose wings
are clipped. He flaps to no great heights, and sees neither the devil
nor the seven oceans nor the twelve apostles. He paints old thoughts in
shiny varnish and, as he is able, he mends small habits here and there.

And therefore, as essayists stay at home, they are precise, almost
amorous, in the posture and outlook of their writing. Leigh Hunt[114]
wished a great library next his study. “But for the study itself,”
he writes, “give me a small snug place, almost entirely walled with
books. There should be only one window in it, looking on trees.” How
the precious fellow scorns the mountains and the ocean! He has no love,
it seems, for typhoons and roaring lions. “I entrench myself in my
books,” he continues, “equally against sorrow and the weather. If the
wind comes down the passage, I look about to see how I can fence it off
by a better disposition of my movables.” And by movables he means his
books. These were his screen against cold and trouble. But Leigh Hunt
had been in prison for his political beliefs. He had grappled with his
lion. So perhaps, after all, my argument fails.

Mr. Edmund Gosse[115] had a different method to the same purpose. He
“was so anxious to fly all outward noise” that he wished for a library
apart from the house. Maybe he had had some experience with Annie and
her clattering broomstick. “In my sleep,” he writes, “'when dreams are
multitude,' I sometimes fancy that one day I shall have a library in a
garden. The phrase seems to contain the whole felicity of man.... It
sounds like having a castle in Spain, or a sheep-walk in Arcadia.”[116]

Montaigne's[117] study was a tower, walled all about with books. At
his table in the midst he was the general focus of their wisdom.
Hazlitt[118] wrote much at an inn at Winterslow, with Salisbury Plain
around the corner of his view. Except for ill health, and a love of the
South Seas (here was the novelist showing itself), Stevenson[119] would
probably have preferred a windy perch overlooking Edinburgh.

It does seem as if rather a richer flavor were given to a book by
knowing the circumstance of its composition. Consequently readers, as
they grow older, turn more and more to biography. It is not chiefly
the biographies that deal with great crises and events, but rather the
biographies that are concerned with small circumstance and agreeable
gossip.

Lately in a book-shop at the foot of Cornhill[120] I fell in with an
old scholar who told me that it was his practice to recommend four
books, which, taken end on end, furnished the general history of
English writing from the Restoration[121] to a time within his own
memory. These books were Pepy's “Diary,”[122] Boswell's “Johnson,”[123]
the “Letters and Diaries” of Madame D'Arblay,[124] and the “Diary” of
Crabbe Robinson.[125]

Beginning almost with the days of Cromwell, here is a chain of pleasant
gossip the space of more than two hundred years. Perhaps at the first
there were old fellows still alive who could remember Shakespeare; who
still sat in chimney-corners and babbled through their toothless gums
of Blackfriars and the Globe.[126] And at the end we find a reference
to President Lincoln and his freeing of the slaves.

Here are a hundred authors, perhaps a thousand, tucking up their cuffs,
looking out from their familiar windows, scribbling their masterpieces.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Why does the writer of an essay need a desk and a library?

     2. Explain the figure of speech that compares an essay with
        something that cooks slowly.

     3. Why must essays be written slowly?

     4. Why does an essayist make great use of books?

     5. Why does an essayist keep a note-book?

     6. Why is an essayist “modest with his own thoughts and tolerant of
        others”?

     7. Why does the essayist enjoy the little things of life?

     8. What is meant by “mending small habits here and there”?

     9. In what ways are many books of biography like essays?

    10. Prove that Mr. Brooks' article is an essay.

    11. Point out unusual expressions, or striking sentences.


 


                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Your aim is to write an essay in imitation of the one written by
Mr. Brooks. Read Mr. Brooks' essay so carefully that you will
know just what to imitate.

Notice how easily and how pleasantly Mr. Brooks writes, and especially
how he makes use of figurative language rather than of direct
statement. Then, too, he uses some very striking expressions, such as
“He desires neither typhoon nor tempest,” and “He paints old thoughts
in shiny varnish.” At the same time he uses common expressions now and
then, as if to give a touch of familiarity or of humor,--“He flaps to
no great heights,” “He mends small habits,” “Who still sat in chimney
corners and babbled through their toothless gums.” With it all, he
gives a clear conception of the essayist and his work.

Try to imitate all this in your own writing. Avoid being stiff and
formal, and try to write easily, familiarly, originally, and with
dignity. Remember that your aim is to give pleasure rather than
information.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[114] Leigh Hunt (1784-1859). A famous English essayist and poet, noted
for his love of books. When he was imprisoned because of an article
ridiculing the Prince Regent he sent for so many books that he made his
prison a sort of library.

[115] Edmund Gosse (1849- ). A noted English poet, critic, and student
of literature. Since he based much of his writing on close study he
naturally wished for quiet.

[116] A castle in Spain, or a sheep-walk in Arcadia. Places of perfect
happiness, where all desired things may be obtained. Arcadia is a
mountain-surrounded section of Greece noted for its happy shepherd life.

[117] Michel de Montaigne (1533-1592). The great French essayist who
invented the familiar essay.

[118] William Hazlitt (1778-1830). An English essayist, lecturer,
biographer and critic; a student of literature.

[119] Robert Louis Stevenson (1850-1894). A British poet, novelist,
short story writer and essayist, born in Edinburgh, Scotland. At
various times he lived in France, Switzerland, the United States and
the South Sea Islands. He was buried in Samoa.

[120] Cornhill. A famous street in London.

[121] The Restoration. The restoration of the English monarchy in 1660
after its overthrow by the Parliamentary forces under Oliver Cromwell.

[122] Samuel Pepys (1633-1703). An English business man, office-holder
and lover of books. For nine years he kept a most personal,
self-revealing diary, which he wrote in shorthand. The diary gives an
accurate picture of the age in which he lived.

[123] James Boswell (1740-1795). A Scotch advocate and author,
noted especially for his _Life of Samuel Johnson, LL.D._, a book
that many pronounce the best biography ever written. The work makes
one intimately acquainted with Samuel Johnson (1709-1784), a great
essayist, poet, biographer, play-writer, and author of a famous
dictionary of the English language. Dr. Johnson was a leader of the
learned men of his time.

[124] Frances Burney D'Arblay (1752-1840). An English novelist, author
of _Evelina_, and a friend of Dr. Samuel Johnson. Her _Letters_ and
_Diary_ give an intimate account of her entire life.

[125] Henry Crabbe Robinson (1775-1867). An English war-correspondent
and social leader. His _Diary_ gives intimate information concerning
the great men of his time, with nearly all of whom he was personally
acquainted.

[126] Blackfriars and the Globe. London theaters in which Shakespeare's
plays were first produced.




                          THE RHYTHM OF PROSE
                            By ABRAM LIPSKY

    _(1872- ). A teacher in the high schools of the City of New York.
    Among his works is a volume entitled “Old Testament Heroes.” Dr.
    Lipsky writes for many publications._

  =_The Rhythm of Prose_ is a meditation on the music of language, on
  the “tune” that accompanies thought. The essay is not severe and
  formal,--as it would be if it were a treatise on prose rhythm,--but
  is easy-going and almost conversational. It is an interesting
  example of the didactic type of essay.=

  =“Good prose is rhythmical because thought is: and thought is
  rhythmical because it is always going somewhere, sometimes
  strolling, sometimes marching, sometimes dancing.”=


The rhythm of prose is inseparable from its sense. This sense-rhythm is
abetted and supported by the mechanical rhythm of syllables, but its
larger outlines are staked out by tones of interrogation, by outcries,
expostulations, threats, entreaties, resolves, by the tones of a
multitude of emotions. These are heard as interior voices, and have
their accompaniment of peculiar bodily motions, such as gritting of
teeth, holding of breath, clenching of fists, tensions, and relaxations
of numberless obscure muscles. All the organs of the body compose the
orchestra that plays the rhythm of prose, which is not only a rhythm,
but a tune. In short, the really important sort of rhythm in prose is
that of phrase, clause, and sentence, and this rhythm is marked not
merely by stresses, but by tones, which are of as great variety as the
modes of putting a proposition, dogmatic, hypothetical, imperative,
persuasive; or as the emotional tone of thought, solemn, jubilant,
placid, mysterious.

Good prose is rhythmical because thought is; and thought is rhythmical
because it is always going somewhere, sometimes strolling, sometimes
marching, sometimes dancing. Types of thought have their characteristic
rhythms, and a resemblance is discernible between these and types of
dancing. Note, for example, the Oriental undulation of De Quincey,[127]
the sprightly two-stepping of Stevenson,[128] the placid glide of
Howells,[129] the march of Gibbon.[130] A man who wishes to put the
accent of moral authority into his style writes in a sententious,
staccato rhythm. One who would appear profound adopts the voluminous,
long-winded German period. The apocalyptic spirit manifests itself in
a buoyant, shouting, leaping rhythm. Meditative calmness adopts the
gliding movement that suggests the waltz.

Now, why do we become uneasy the moment we suspect a writer of aiming
at musical effects? It is because we know instinctively that every
thought creates its own rhythm, and that when a writer's attention
is upon his rhythm, he is bent upon something else than his thought
processes. The only way of giving the impression of thought that is not
original or spontaneous is by imitating the rhythm of that thought. For
real meanings cannot be borrowed. They are always new. Real thought is
an action, an original adventure. It pulsates, and the body pulsates
with it. No writer can produce this sense of original adventure in us
unless he has it himself.

The various classes of writers and talkers whose business it is to
sway the minds of others understand as well as the medicine-man in the
primitive tribe the part that rhythm plays in their work. The rhythm
of each is characteristic. The swelling, pompous senatorial style that
suggests the weight of nations behind the speaker is familiar.

  I admit that there is an ultimate violent remedy, above the
  Constitution and in defiance of the Constitution, which may be
  resorted to when a revolution is to be justified. But I do not
  admit that, under the Constitution and in conformity with it, there
  is any mode in which a state government, as a member of the Union,
  can interfere and stop the progress of the general Government by
  force of her own laws under any circumstances whatever.

Rhythm of this sort is not a matter of accented and unaccented
syllables, but of length of phrase and suspension of voice as it
gathers volume and momentum to break finally in an overwhelming roar.

Then there is the suave, insinuating clerical style that lulls
opposition and penetrates the conscience of the listener with its
smooth, unhalting naïveté.

  How many of us feel that those who have committed grave outward
  transgressions into which we have not fallen because the motives
  to them were not present with us, or because God's grace kept us
  hedged round by influences which resisted them--may nevertheless
  have had hearts which answered more to God's heart, which entered
  far more into the grief and joy of His Spirit, than ours ever did.

Or, if the preacher is of the apocalyptic variety, we get the explosive
shocks, the hammer-blows, and the thunderous reverberations.

  Ah, no, this deep-hearted son of the wilderness with his burning
  black eyes and open, social, deep soul, had other thoughts in him
  than ambition.... The great mystery of existence, as I said, glared
  in upon him, with its terrors, with its splendors; no hear-says
  could hide that unspeakable fact, “Here am I.”

Editorial omniscience clothes itself in a martial array of unwavering
units. There is no quickening or slackening in their irresistible
advance. There is no weakening in their ranks, nor are they subject
to sudden accessions of strength. All is as it was in the beginning,
perfect wisdom without flaw.

All this is in prose what conventional meter is in verse. The writer
sets himself a tune, which he follows. The political orator, the
preacher, the editorial writer, the philosopher, the rhapsodist, knows
that his writing acquires prestige from the class wisdom whose rhythm
he chants. The reader who does not examine the thought too critically,
but who recognizes the rhythm, is satisfied with the writer's
credentials and bolts the whole piece. The reverence the average man
has for print is largely due to the hypnotizing effect of its rhythm.

What we find intolerable is the setting of the tune at the start and
the grinding it out to the end. In revenge the reading world consigns
the much-vaunted Sir Thomas Browne's[131] “Urn Burial,” De Quincey's
“Levana,”[132] and Pater's[133] famous purple patch about Mona Lisa
to the rhetorical museums; but it never ceases to read “Robinson
Crusoe,”[8] “Pilgrim's Progress,”[8] and “Gulliver's Travels,”[134] and
it devours G. B. Shaw[135] with delight.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Explain just how prose rhythms aid in communicating thought.

     2. Show that it is perfectly natural to adapt prose rhythm to
        thought.

     3. What honesty of style does the writer demand?

     4. Why is an artificial rhythm unsuccessful?

     5. Why is a continued rhythm unsuccessful?

     6. What sort of prose rhythm does Dr. Lipsky advocate?

     7. Point out figurative language in the essay? Why is it used? What
        effect does it produce?

     8. Point out conversational expressions in the essay. Why are they
        used? What effects do they produce?

     9. What advantage is gained by making references to various
        authors?

    10. Why does the writer quote from several authors?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Think of a thesis, or statement, in which you believe strongly.
Explain, first of all, that it is entirely natural for any one to act in
accordance with your thesis. Illustrate your thought by making
definite references to well-known characteristics, and by making apt
quotations. End your work by writing a paragraph that will correspond
with the last paragraph of Dr. Lipsky's essay.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[127] Thomas de Quincey (1785-1859). A celebrated English essayist,
noted for the poetic beauty of his prose style.

[128] Robert Louis Stevenson (1850-1894). A great modern novelist and
essayist whose style has both vigor and beauty of rhythm.

[129] William Dean Howells (1837-1920). A modern realistic novelist and
literary critic who wrote in a serene and quiet style.

[130] Edward Gibbon (1737-1794). A great English historian, author of
_The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire_. His style is stately and
impressive, as befits a great subject.

[131] Sir Thomas Browne (1605-1682). A writer of essay-like books
that are notable because of unusual beauty of phrasing and rich
suggestiveness of expression.

[132] _Levana._ One of the most poetic of Thomas De Quincey's essays.

[133] Walter Pater (1839-1894). An English essayist noted for the
richness of his prose style.

[134] _Robinson Crusoe_, by Daniel Defoe (1661-1731), and _Pilgrim's
Progress_, by John Bunyan (1628-1688), are both written in plain,
unaffected style.

[135] George Bernard Shaw (1856--). A present-day dramatist and critic
who adapts his style to his thought.




                          THE REALISTIC STORY




                          THE CHINAMAN'S HEAD
                         By WILLIAM ROSE BENÉT


    _(1886). Formerly with_ Century Magazine, _and at present associate
    editor of_ The Literary Review. _Contributor, particularly of
    poems and humorous verse, to many magazines. He is the author of_
    Merchants from Cathay; The Falconer of God; The Great White Wall;
    The Burglar of the Zodiac; Perpetual Light (_memorial_).

  =Humor depends upon incongruity, exaggeration, misunderstanding,
  ignorance, the unexpected, and the use of the absurd in a thousand
  different ways. Humor that is spontaneous is always most effective.=

  =A good humorous story is realistic, its humor apparently created
  from within, by the characters, rather than from without, by the
  author.=

  =_The Chinaman's Head_ is an example of the simple, humorous
  story. It gives sufficient character indication to support the
  incongruity, the misunderstanding, and the unexpected on which the
  humor of the story depends. The brevity of the story contributes to
  its effect.=


There must be oodles of money in it, I thought, and what a delightful
existence, just one complication after another. I can imagine a
beginning: “As he looked more nearly at the round object in the middle
of the sidewalk, he discovered that it was the completely severed head
of a Chinese laundryman.” There you have it at once--mystery! Gripping!
Big! Large! In fact, immense! Then your story covers twenty-five
chapters, in which you unravel why it was a Chinese laundryman and
whose Chinese laundryman it was. Excellent! I shall write mystery
stories.

I lit another cigarette and sat thinking of mystery. Did you ever
realize this about mystery? It gets more and more mysterious the more
you think of it. It was getting too mysterious for me already. Just
then my wife called me to lunch.

“Did you ever think, my dear,” I said affably as I unfolded my napkin
and the roll in it bounced to the floor. They always do with me. It
seems a rather cheap form of amusement, putting rolls in napkins. “Did
you ever think,” I said, recovering the roll.

“Oh, often,” said my wife.

This somewhat disconcerted me.

“I mean,” I said, accidentally ladling the cold consomme into my
tea-cup--“I mean, what would you do if you found a Chinaman's head on
the sidewalk?”

“Step on it,” said my wife, promptly.

It was quite unexpected.

“I mean _seriously_,” I said, handing her my tea-cup, which she refused.

“I am quite serious,” said my wife; “but I wish you would watch what
you are doing.”

I spent the next few minutes doing it.

“I am thinking,” I said gravely over my cutlet, “of writing
mystery-stories.”

“That will be quite harmless,” returned the woman I once loved with
passion.

I ignored her tone.

“The mystery-story,” I said, “is a money-maker. Look at 'Sherlock
Holmes,' and look at--well, look at 'Old and Young King Brady'!”

“All those dime novels are written by the same man,” said my wife,
unemotionally.

“_Were_, my dear. I believe that man is dead now.”

“Then it's his brother,” said my wife.

“But I am not going to descend to the dime novel,” I went on. “I am
going to write the higher type of mystery-story. My first story will
concern the Oriental of whom I have spoken. It will be called 'The
Chinaman's Head.' Don't you think it a good idea?”

“But that isn't all of it?” the rainbow fancy of my lost youth
questioned, at the same time making a long arm for the olives.

“Of course not. There are innumerable complications. They--er--they
complicate--”

“Such as?”

“Of course,” I said, “I conceived this idea just before lunch. I have
had no time as yet to work out the mere detail.”

“Oh,” said my lifelong penance, chewing an end of celery.

But after lunch I sat down at my desk and began to concentrate upon
my complications. I wrote down some names of characters that occurred
to me, and put them into a hat. Then I took them out of the hat and
wrote after them the type of person that belonged to the name. Then I
put them into the hat again, shook the hat, and drew them out. This is
entirely my own invention in writing a mystery-story. The first name
that came out was that of “Rudolph Habakkuk, soap manufacturer.”

It was an excellent beginning. I was immediately interested in the
story. I began it at once.

“'Ha!' exclaimed Rudolph Habakkuk, soap manufacturer, starting
violently at what he saw before him upon the broad pavements of Fifth
Avenue. The round, yellow object glistened in the oblique rays of the
afternoon sun. It was a Chinaman's head!”

I thought it excellent, pithy, precise. Scene, the whole character of
one of the principal figures in the story, the crux of the mystery--all
at a glance, as it were. And what more revealing than that simple, yet
complete, designation, soap manufacturer! I couldn't resist going into
the next room and reading it to my wife. I said:

“Doesn't it arouse your curiosity?”

“Yes,” said my wife, biting off a thread. “But how did it get there?”

“What? The Chinaman's head? Oh, that is the mystery.”

“I should say it was,” said my wife to herself.

I left the begrudging woman and returned to my study. I sat down to
think about how it got there. I thought almost an hour about how it
got there. Do you know, it quite eluded me? I took my hat and overcoat
and went down the street to talk to Theodore Rowe, who is an author of
sorts.

“Let's hear your plot,” said Theodore, giving me a cigarette and a
cocktail.

“Well,” I started off immediately, with decision, “you see, this
Rudolph Habakkuk is a wealthy soap manufacturer. On Christmas day, when
he is walking down Fifth Avenue, he is arrested--”

“Ah,” said Theodore. “Arson, or just for being a soap manufacturer?”

“I did not think _you_ would interrupt,” I said solemnly. “He is
arrested by a Chinaman's head.”

“Really,” said Theodore, “don't you think that's drawing the long bow a
bit? Is it 'Alice in Wonderland' or a ghost-story?”

“He sees it on the pavement,” I pursued as well as I could. “It is
entirely cut off. I mean it is decapitated, you know. The head is
decapitated.”

“Yes,” answered Theodore, slowly, “I see. It would be, Heads get that
way.”

“Well,” I said, “what do you think of it?”

“I haven't heard the story yet,” remarked Theodore.

“Oh,” I replied a trifle impatiently, I am afraid. “But that is the
idea. The details are to be worked out later. Don't you think it's a
striking idea?”

“I should say so,” said Theodore, rising; “almost too striking. Have
another cocktail. They're good for what ails you.”

“Thanks,” I said. “But, you see, the fact is I _have_ got a
bit--er--perplexed about how to explain the appearance of the head.
Possibly you could suggest?”

“We-ll,” said Theodore, pursing his lips in deep thought, “let me
see. Have you thought of the Chinaman being in a manhole? Only his
head showing, you know.” He turned his back on me and drew out his
handkerchief. He seemed to have a very bad cold.

“No,” I said emphatically, “this is a severed head.”

“It might have been dropped from a ballooo--_achoo!_” gargled Theodore,
his back still turned.

“Really, Theodore,” I said, rising, “thank you for the drinks, but I
must say your mind doesn't seem to fire to a true mystery-story. I
must have something better than that. I shall have to find it.”

As I was going down the front steps, Theodore opened the door.

“Oh, Tuffin,” he called after me, “how did he know it was a Chinaman?”

“By the queue wound round the neck,” I called back. It was rather good
for an impromptu, I think. “The man had been murdered.”

I then found myself colliding with a policeman. He looked after me
suspiciously.

                   *       *       *       *       *

My wife reminded me that we were to dine at the Royles's that night.
As I dressed I was still turning over in my mind the unlimited
possibilities of my first mystery-story. I could see the colored
jackets of the book, the publisher's announcements, other volumes in
the same series, “The Musical Fingerbowls,” “The Pink Emerald,” “The
Green Samovar,” “The Purple Umbrella.” Imagination flamed. My wife said
she had called me three times, but I know it was only once.

I had expected it to be rather a dull dinner party, but really Mrs.
Revis quite brightened it for me. She was immediately interested in my
becoming an author, and she began to talk about Dostoyevsky.

“Well, you know--just at first,” I rejoined in modest deprecation of my
own talents.

“And tell me your first story. What is it to be?” She leaned toward me
with large and shining eyes. I had a moment of wishing the title were
not quite so sensational.

“It is to be called 'The Chinaman's Head,'” I said, hastening to add,
“You see, it is a very deep mystery-story.”

“A-ah, mystery!” said Mrs. Revis, clasping her beautiful hands and
gazing upward. “I _adore_ mystery!”

“The plot is,” I said--“well, you see, there is a soap manufacturer--”

“A-ah, soup!” softly moaned Mrs. Revis, gazing at hers.

“No; soap,” I said. “The soap manufacturer is walking along Fifth
Avenue--”

“They really shouldn't allow them,” exclaimed my confidante.

“Yes, but he is--and--and he sees a Chinaman's head.”

“Where?”

“A-ah,” I said, “that is the touch--a severed head at his feet!”

Her dismay was pleasing. I had aroused her. She choked over her soup.

“Tell me more!” she gasped.

“Certainly,” I said. “The--the way it got there--”

What an infernal thing a mystery-story is! How should I know how it got
there! Isn't the effect enough? Some day I shall write a story entirely
composed of effects.

As I drew our Ford up at our door, my wife suddenly turned to me.

“It isn't late, George, and Sam Lee is just down at the corner. He
should have brought the laundry this afternoon. I entirely forgot about
it, and to-morrow's Sunday.”

“But surely they close up.”

“Oh, no; he'll be open. Maida went for it two Saturdays ago at about
this time. They work all night, you know. Please, George!”

“Oh, all right,” I said resignedly. I jogged and pulled things and
ambled down the block. Sure enough, the laundry was still lighted and
doing business. It always smells of lychee-nuts and bird's nest soup
inside. The black-haired yellow boy grinned at me. “How do!”

I explained my errand and secured the large parcel. Suddenly a thought
occurred to me. The very thing! These Orientals were full of subtlety.
I would put it to him.

“John,” I said impressively, “listen!” His name was Sam, but I always
call them John.

He listened attentively, watching me with beady black eyes.

“John,” I said, “what would you do if your head--no; I mean--what would
you do if a soap manufacturer--no; perhaps we had better get at it
this way. If a Chinaman's head was cut off--see what I mean?” I leaned
forward and indicated by an appropriate and time-honored gesture the
process of decapitation. John--I mean Sam--took two steps hastily
backward, and his eyes became pin-points. He jabbered something at his
friend in the rear room.

“Now, John--I mean Sam,” I said mollifyingly, “don't be foolish. Just
come back nearer--”

“That'll be all of that shenanigan,” said a very Irish voice behind me.
I turned, and saw the policeman with whom I had so nearly collided that
afternoon.

“That'll be all, I say,” remarked Roundsman Reardon, as I afterward
found his name to be. “Sur-r, ain't yees ashamed of yerself, scarin'
the likes o' these Chinks into the fright o' their shadow?” He leveled
a large, pudgy finger at me. “An' I hear-rd ye this afternoon. I seen
ye an' I hear-rd ye. An' ye may be thankful I know ye by repitation to
be har-rmless. But ye'll come with me quiet, an' I'll escar-rt ye back
to yer own house, an' leave the wife to put ye to bed. Ain't ye ashamed
to be drinkin' this way an' makin' a sneak with the la'ndry without
payin', by hopes of frightenin'--”

“That is not true,” I answered hotly, for my blood was up. “I intend to
pay. I had forgotten.”

“Ye had forgotten,” said Reardon, a whit contemptuously. “An' ye was
askin' the China boy how he w'u'd like to be murthered!”

“I will explain to you, Officer,” I said in the street. “I am writing a
story. I was merely seeking a native impression.”

“That'll be as it may be,” said Reardon. “Ye give me the impression--”

“Suppose you had _your_ head cut off--” I began affably enough. But I
got no further.

“It is as I thought,” said Reardon, gloomily. He got in beside me,
and he helped me out at my own house, though I needed absolutely no
assistance. He seemed to want to give me a bit of advice.

“Lay off the stuff, sur-r,” he said ponderously. “An' ye wid the fine
wife you have!” He shook his head a number of times, glanced with sad

    [Illustration: =“'A-ah, mystery!'” said Mrs. Revis, clasping her
 beautiful hands and gazing upward. “'I adore mystery!'”=]  (_page 234_)

resignation at my wife as she led me in, and departed, still shaking
his head. I can't tell you how all that head-shaking annoyed me.

                   *       *       *       *       *

I started awake in the middle of the night. It was unbelievably
excellent.

“Jane!” I said to my wife, “Jane, it's wonderful. It's come to me!”

But Jane did not answer.

“Jane,” I said happily, “you see, the Chinaman's head--”

“If you say Chinaman to me again,” returned my wife, sleepily, “I'll
leave you. There are six pieces missing from that laundry.”

And she never knew.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

    1. What is the character of the speaker? How does the speaker's
       personality contribute to the humor of the story?

    2. What sort of story did he contemplate writing?

    3. What is the character of the speaker's wife? How does her
       personality contribute to the humor of the story?

    4. What gives humor to Theodore's remarks?

    5. Why is the incident of meeting the policeman mentioned early in
       the story?

    6. What gives humor to Mrs. Revis's remarks?

    7. What misunderstandings give humor to the story?





                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Found your story on some actual interest that you have. Write
in the first person, as realistically as possible. Do not over-use
exaggeration, but make your story unusual. You will gain the
best effects if you base your humor on natural misunderstanding,
and on remarks or events that are incongruous. Confine your story
to two or three principal incidents, and bring the narrative to a
natural conclusion that will give the effect of climax.




                          GETTING UP TO DATE
                           By ROBERTA WAYNE


    _An American short story writer and contributor to magazines._

  =A realistic story differs from a romantic story in that it concerns
  the events of ordinary life. Its characters are the people whom
  we know,--those who move about us in daily life. Its plot centers
  around everyday events. Naturally a realistic story depends largely
  upon character interest.=

  =_Getting Up To Date_ concerns such a simple thing as storekeeping,
  and the methods of attracting customers. Job Lansing, in the story,
  represents the type of person who clings to old ways. His niece,
  Ellie, represents the spirit of youth and progress,--the spirit of
  adaptability.=

  =The simplicity and familiarity of such a story is just as
  interesting as is wild adventure in the most vivid romance.=


Old Job Lansing stood, hatchet in hand, and stared down into the big
packing-case that he had just opened.

“El-lee,” he called, “come here quick.” And as footsteps were heard and
the shutting of a door, he continued: “They've sent the wrong stuff.
This isn't what we ordered!”

The girl buried her head in the box from which she brought forth bolt
after bolt of dress goods, voiles with gay colors, dainty organdies,
and ginghams in pretty checks and plaids. As she rose, her eyes glowed
and instinctively she straightened her shoulders. “Yes, Uncle, it is
what we ordered. I sent for this!”

“You _did_!” The old man trembled with rage.

“But, Uncle, they're so pretty and I think--”

“You can think and think as much as you please, but those goods will
never sell. They'll just lie on the shelves. _You_ may think they're
pretty, but an Injin won't buy a yard of 'em, and it's Injins we're
trading with.”

“But there's no reason why the squaws shouldn't buy pretty dresses
instead of ugly calico. There's more money in this, and it's a pleasure
to sell such dainty stuff. Besides, we can sell to the white people.
There's Mrs. Matthews--”

“I've heard all your arguments before, and I tell you, you'll never
sell it.”

Old Job had never married. For many years he had lived alone in the
rooms behind his store, and he had become self-centered and a bit fussy
and intolerant. If he had realized how much his life was to be upset,
he could never have brought himself to offer his widowed sister and her
family a home; for he valued his quiet life, and, above all, he wanted
to do things in his own way.

He was never at ease with the two nephews, who soon left to make their
own way in the world.

But with Ellie it was different. Her affectionate ways won Job's heart.
They were chums, often going together on long horseback rides to
distant peaks that looked inviting. And as the girl developed, he loved
to have her with him as he worked and he was delighted at her interest
in everything in the little store. She even learned the prices of the
goods and helped him.

Old Job had kept this store at the “summit” for thirty years, and he
was sure he knew every side of the business. As long as he kept a
good supply of beans and flour, that was all that was necessary. A
good-sized Indian village lay down the creek about a mile, and it was
from this settlement that Job Lansing got most of his trade.

The old man had come to the age when he lived mostly in the past. He
liked to talk of the “glorious” days. “Things were lively around here
then,” he used to say. “Why, for every dollar's worth I sell now, then
I used to sell fifty dollars. They were the good old times!”

“But why?” questioned Ellie, bringing him sharply back to the present.
“There are a lot more people here now and we should do better.” Then,
with a gesture of impatience, “Uncle, there's no sense in it. We've got
to get up to date. I don't blame Joe and Glenn for leaving. There's no
future here.”

“Shucks!” said Job Lansing. “You don't know what you're talking about.”

But Ellie always managed to have the last word. “I'm going to do
_something_! See if I don't!”

And she had done it!

For weeks, now, Job Lansing had been quite pleased with her. She had
never been so reasonable. She had taken a great notion to cleaning up
the store. Not that he approved of her moving the goods around; but
still, it was a woman's way to be everlastingly fussing about with a
dust-cloth. You couldn't change them.

He had decided that this new interest on Ellie's part came from the
feeling of responsibility he had put upon her two months before when he
had been called to Monmouth. His old mining partner was ill and wanted
to see him. Before he went he gave his niece a few directions and told
her how to make up the order for goods, that had to go out the next
day. He rode away feeling that the business would be all right in her
hands.

Now, as he stormed around the store, he realized why she had taken such
an interest in the arrangement of the shelf space; why a gap had been
left in a prominent place. It was for this silly stuff that wouldn't
sell! He wanted to send it back, but, as it had been ordered, he would
have to pay express on it both ways.

Ellie stood her ground, a determined expression in her face. She
unpacked the heavy box and put the gay organdies and voiles in the
places she had arranged for them. One piece, of a delicate gray with
small, bright, magenta flowers in it, she left on the counter; and to
the astonishment of the old man, she let a length of the dainty goods
fall in graceful folds over a box placed beneath it.

This was one of the notions she had brought back from Phœnix, where
she had gone on a spring shopping trip with Mrs. Matthews, wife of the
superintendent at the Golden Glow mine. How she had enjoyed that day!
Her eager eyes noted every up-to-date detail in the big stores where
they shopped; but to her surprise, Mrs. Matthews had bought only such
things as they might easily have carried in her uncle's store--plain,
but pretty, ginghams for the Matthews' children, a light-blue organdie
for herself, a box of writing-paper, and a string of beads for Julie's
birthday.

Ellie's pretty little head was at once filled with ideas that coaxed
for a chance to become solid facts. Her uncle's trip to Monmouth gave
her an opportunity, and, after weeks of waiting, the boxes had been
delivered and the storm had broken.

When they closed the store for the night, Ellie was tired. She was not
so sure of success as she had been. But, at least, she had made an
effort to improve things. How she longed for her mother, absent on a
two months' visit to one of her sons!

With the morning came new courage, even exhilaration, for unconsciously
she was finding joy in the struggle; not as a diversion in the monotony
and loneliness of her life, for Ellie did not know what monotony meant,
and she felt herself rich in friends. She had two.

One was Louise Prescott at Skyboro, only ten miles away, daughter of
a wealthy ranchman. They often visited each other, for each had her
own pony and was free to come and go as she wished. And the other was
Juanita Mercy, down the cañon in the opposite direction. Now, for the
last two years, Louise had been away at school. But she was always
thrilled at getting back to the mountains. She had returned the day
before, and Ellie knew that early the next morning she would be loping
her pony over the steep road that led to the little mountain store.

And it was when Ellie was standing guard over her new goods, fearing
that her uncle might, in a moment of anger, order them to be sent back,
that Louise rode up, and, throwing her reins forward over her pony's
neck, leaped from the saddle and rushed into the store.

“Oh, Ellie! it's good to get back, and I have four months of vacation.
Won't we have a grand time!--Why, you've been fixing up the store, Mr.
Lansing; and how lovely it looks! I must have Mama come up and see
these pretty summer things.” Turning again to Ellie, she threw her
arms around her and whispered: “Come on out and sit on our dear old
bluff. I just can't get enough of the hills to-day, and I want to talk
and talk and talk.”

But it was not Louise who did the talking this time. While her eyes
were feasting on the gorgeous scenery before her, the dim trails that
led up and up the steep mountain on the other side of the creek, Ellie
unburdened herself of her troubles. She told how she had ordered the
goods on her own responsibility.

“Why, Ellie, how could you do it? I'd never have had the courage!”

“But I just _had_ to, Lou. I don't want to leave the mountains, and I
don't want to be poor all our lives. Uncle's getting old and set in his
ways, and he can't seem to see that things are going behind all the
time. Dear old uncle! He's been so good to us! And now I'd like to help
him. I'm just trying to save him from himself.”

“And you will. I think it's fine!”

“Yes, it's fine, if--if--if!” exploded Ellie, who was not quite so
optimistic as she had been in the morning. Several Indian women had
come into the store, and while they stared in astonishment at the
pretty goods displayed on the counter, they had gone out without buying
anything.

Job Lansing had shrugged his shoulders, and while not a word had
escaped him, his manner had said emphatically, “I told you so!”

“But where is there any _if_, I'd like to know. You just have to sell
all that stuff as fast as you can, and that will show him.”

“But if the squaws won't buy? They didn't seem wild about it this
morning.”

“Well, you're not dependent on the squaws, I should hope. I'm going to
tell Mother, and she'll come up, if I say so, and buy a lot of dresses.”

“Now, Lou Prescott, don't you dare! That will spoil everything. Uncle
would say it was charity. You see _we_ are trading with squaws. Don't
laugh, Louise! I must make good! I just _must_! But how am I going to
make those squaws buy what I want them to buy? If Uncle would only plan
and work with me, I know we could make a success of it. But he won't!”

“You should have invested in beads, reds and blues and greens, all
colors, bright as you could get them.”

“That's a good idea, Lou. I'll do it. But they can't buy a string of
beads without buying a dress to match it! I'll do it, Lou Prescott!”

An hour later, when they returned to the store, Job Lansing looked
up from the counter, his face wrathful. He had just measured off six
yards of pink organdie and was doing it up in a package for Joe Hoan's
daughter. Job Lansing hated to give in. He had tried to get Lillie
Hoan to wait until Ellie returned, but she had insisted, and so the
old man was the first to sell a piece of the pretty goods. He did it
ungraciously.

Ellie and Louise stood still and stared at each other. Then Ellie
whispered: “It's a good omen. I'm going to succeed.”

And that night a second order was dispatched. Job Lansing made no
objection, but he did not ask her what she had sent for.

The next two days were busy ones for Ellie. Her uncle fretted to
himself, for not once did she come inside the store to help him. Louise
came each day, and the two girls spent their time in Ellie's room,
where the rattling sound of the old sewing-machine could be heard.

But on the third day Ellie was up early and was already dusting out the
store when her uncle entered. It was Saturday, always a busy day. This
pleased Job Lansing. “That girl has a pile of good sense along with
this other nonsense,” he said to himself as he watched her.

About nine o'clock Louise arrived and entered quickly, throwing down a
square package. “Here they are, Ell. He brought them last night. I came
right over with them, but I have to hurry back. They are beauties, all
right.”

The girls disappeared once more into the bedroom, where they could be
heard laughing and exclaiming.

When Ellie emerged no one would have known her, for the little cowboy
girl was dressed in a dainty voile with pink blossoms in it, and around
her neck was a long string of pink beads that matched perfectly the
flowers in her gown.

Job Lansing started as if he were going to speak, then suppressed the
words and went on with his work. Ellie tried to act as if everything
was the same as usual. Selecting some blues and pinks and greens among
her ginghams and voiles, she draped them over boxes and tubs. Then
across each piece she laid a string of beads that matched or contrasted
well with the colors in the material, and waited for results.

And the result was that when Joe Phinney's wife, the squaw who helped
them in the kitchen, came in with the intention of buying beans and
flour, she took a long look, first at Ellie, then at the exhibit, and
without a word turned and left. She did not hurry, but she walked
straight back to the Indian village.

“Guess she was frightened,” commented Job.

Ellie was disappointed. She had depended on old Mary, and it was
through her that she hoped to induce the other squaws to come. Some of
them had never been in the store. They were shy, and left their men to
do the buying.

Their sole visitor for the next hour was Phil Jennings, the
stage-driver, who stopped in for the mail. “Well, well, what's all this
about! Are you trying to outshine the stores in town, Miss Ellie? And
how pretty you look this morning.”

“Yes, Mr. Jennings. We're going to have a fine store here by this
time next year. Uncle's thinking of enlarging it and putting in an
up-to-date stock. On your way down, you might pass the word along that
our summer goods are in and that I have some beautiful pieces here for
dresses, just as good as can be bought in Tucson or Phœnix. It's easier
than sending away to Chicago.”

“Well, I sure will, Miss Ellie. Mother was growling the other day
because she would have to go to Monmouth to buy ginghams for the kids.”

“Please tell her that next week I'm expecting some ready-made clothes
for children, and it will pay her to come up and see them.”

“I'll tell her,” said Phil Jennings, as he cracked his whip and started
off. All he could talk about that day was “that clever little girl of
Job Lansing's” who was going to make a real store at the summit and
keep the mountain trade where it belonged.

“Where are you, Uncle?” called Ellie, as she came back into the store.

“I'm hiding!” said Job. “Ashamed to be seen. Enlarge the store! It's
more than likely I'll have to mortgage it. And you drumming up trade
that way. It isn't ladylike.”

“Well, it simply has to be done. He'll give us some good advertising
down the road to-day. I wish there was some one I could send down the
creek. I wonder if you couldn't ride down, yourself.”

But Job Lansing pretended not to hear.

Ellie did not feel as brave as her words indicated. She knew that
their trade from day to day came from the Indian settlement, and
looked disconsolately out of the window. But in a moment she gave an
exclamation of joy and found herself shaking her uncle's arm. “Here
they come, Uncle, dear! Here they come!”

“Who? What are you talking about?”

“The squaws! They're here in full force. Mary, the old darling, she's
brought the whole tribe, I do believe!”

Ellie busied herself at the counter, trying to appear at ease when
the Indian women filed into the store and stood gazing about them.
She was impatient to know if they were pleased, but their impassive
faces told nothing. She would just have to let them take their time.
So she pretended not to notice them as they drew near to the counter,
fingering the beads and dress-goods.

“How do you like my new dress, Mary?” Ellie turned on them suddenly.
The squaws approached slowly and began to feel the cloth. Mary took
hold of the beads and said, “Uh!” Then in a moment, “How much?”

Ellie's impulse was to throw her arms around Mary and hug her, but she
was very dignified and grown-up as she answered calmly: “We don't sell
the beads. They are not for sale!”

“Well of all things! Not for sale!” muttered Job, as he slipped through
the rear door into the store-room and slammed it vehemently.

“They are not for sale, but we give a string of them to any one who
buys a dress.”

Five of the squaws bought dresses, and each time a long string of beads
was passed over.

In the afternoon, Ellie's watchful eyes caught the first glimpse of
them as the same squaws, accompanied by others, rounded the curve in
the path and came single file up the steep short-cut to the store.

Ellie counted her profits that night and was satisfied. Still, there
were some twenty or twenty-five squaws in the settlement who had never
been inside the store, and she made up her mind that they must be
persuaded to come.

The next week a large packing-case arrived. Ellie was the one to wield
the hatchet this time, for her uncle was still in an ungracious mood.
The box was larger than she expected, but this was explained when it
was opened. Two large dolls were inside--one with curly short hair and
boyish face, and the other a real “girly” doll. A letter explained
that with an order for children's ready-to-wear clothes it might be an
advantage to have dolls on which to display them.

“I wonder!” said Ellie, to herself. “Look here, Uncle,” she called, as
the old man came into the store; “see what they've sent me! Look at
these pink and white dolls, when we're trading with Indians. Isn't it a
joke?”

“A coat of brown paint is what you want,” said old Job, laughing a
cynical laugh.

“You've hit it, Uncle! You certainly have dandy ideas! I shouldn't have
thought of it.”

Then in a moment he heard her at the telephone giving a number. It
was the Prescott ranch. “Hello, is that you, Louise? Can you come up
to-day? I need you. All right. And Lou, bring your oil paints. It's
very important.”

It was with much giggling and chattering that the two girls began their
transformation of the pink-and-white dolls. Their bisque faces were
given a thin coating of brown paint. The old man watched them from
across the store and almost gasped as he saw them rip off the wigs.
Then they retreated to the kitchen. He was so curious that he made
several trips to the door and peeked through a crack.

What he saw was the two girls bending over a pot on the stove, which
they were stirring furiously. Once in a while Ellie raised the stick
with something black on the end, and finally the two dripping dolls'
wigs were hung over the stove to dry. Of course the boiling had taken
all the curl out of the hair, but that was what they wanted, for the
two dolls were now brown-faced, dark-haired figures. They were arrayed
in the ready-to-wear clothes, and the girls stood back to survey them.

“They look fine, Ellie! That is, yours does; but my girl here doesn't
look quite right.”

Job Lansing was pretending to be busy. He turned and at once broke into
a roar of laughter. “Well, when did you ever see a blue-eyed Injin?”

“Oh that's it, Ellie. Your doll had brown eyes, but mine are blue. What
shall we do? It looks silly this way.”

“Paint 'em black!” chuckled the old man.

“Of course!” said Ellie. Then in a tone loud enough to carry across the
store, “Isn't Uncle quick to notice things?” Ellie meant him to hear
what she said, but she was none the less sincere, for she did have a
high regard for her uncle's ability. She had said to Louise often in
the last few days, “When I get Uncle started, there'll be no stopping
him.” Still, the remark had been sent forth with a purpose.

Job Lansing gave the girl a quick glance. She was daubing brown paint
on the girl-doll's eyes. He was pleased by her praise and no less by
her readiness to take his advice.

The little dresses and suits sold quickly. Mrs. Matthews bought a
supply, and told others about them.

But they were mostly white women who purchased these things; and while
Ellie was glad to get their trade, she still had the fixed idea that

  [Illustration: =“'Isn't this great! They're here, every one of them!
  You're awfully good to let us use the phonograph'.”=]    (_page 250_)

she must get the squaws in the habit of coming in to do their own
shopping.

The quick sale of the new goods made a deep impression on Job Lansing,
and he seemed especially pleased at the sales made to the white women
at the mines. One morning he approached his niece with the suggestion
that she had better keep her eyes open and find out what the women
around the mountains needed. Ellie had been doing this for weeks. She
had a big list made out already, but she saw no need of telling her
uncle. She looked up, her face beaming.

“That's a capital idea, Uncle. I think we might just as well sell them
all their supplies.” Ellie was exultant. She knew her troubles were
over, that her plan was working out.

Still, she wasn't quite satisfied. A few of the shy squaws had been
induced to come up and look at things from the outside, peering into
the shop through the door and windows. But there were probably twenty
who had not been in the store. If only she could persuade them to come
once, there would be no more trouble.

The final stroke which brought the Indians, both men and women, into
the store was a bit of good luck. Ellie called it a miracle.

It was after a very heavy rain-storm in the mountains that Jennings,
the stage-driver, shouted to her one evening: “Do you mind if I leave
a big box here for young Creighton over at the Scotia mine? The road's
all washed out by Camp 3, and I don't dare take this any farther. It's
one of those phonygrafts that makes music, you know. And say, Miss
Ellie, will you telephone him that it's here?”

“Yes,” answered Ellie in an absent-minded way. “I'll telephone him. She
was still half dreaming as she heard young Creighton's voice at the
other end of the line, but at once she became eager and alert. “I want
to ask a favor of you, Mr. Creighton? Your phonograph is here. They
can't take it up on account of the washout. May I open it and play on
it. I'll make sure that it is boxed up again carefully.”

“Why, certainly, Miss Ellie! I'll be glad to have you enjoy the music.
The records and everything are in the box. Perhaps I'll come over and
hear it myself.”

The next evening, about eight o'clock, Will Creighton arrived on
horseback, and found such a throng of Indians close about the door that
he had to go in by the kitchen. He heard the strains of the phonograph
music and had no need to ask the cause of the excitement. All the
squaws were inside the store. Occasionally one would extend a hand and
touch the case or peer into the dark box, trying to discover where the
sound came from.

Creighton approached Ellie, who was changing a needle. She turned her
flushed face to him with a smile. “Isn't this great! They're here,
every one of them! You're awfully good to let us use the phonograph.
I've ordered one like it for ourselves. These blessed squaws do enjoy
music so much!”

Job Lansing was standing near the machine, enjoying it as much as any
one. A new record had been put on, the needle adjusted, and the music
issued forth from that mysterious box. It was one of those college
songs, a “laughing” piece. And soon old Job was doubled over, with
his enjoyment of it. The squaws drew closer together. At first they
scowled, for they thought that the queer creature in the polished case
was laughing at _them_. Then one began to giggle, and soon another and
finally the store was filled with hysterical merriment. Sometimes it
would stop for a moment, and then, as the sounds from the phonograph
could be heard, it would break forth again.

Ellie stood for hours, playing every record four or five times, and
when she finally shut up the box, as a sign that the concert was over,
the taciturn Indians filed silently out of the store and went home
without a word.

But the girl knew that they would return. She had won!

Another triumph was hers when the springtime came again. One day her
uncle approached her and hesitatingly said, “Ellie, we're going to be
awfully cramped when our new summer goods arrive. Guess I'd better have
Hoan ride over and give me an estimate on an addition to the store.”

Ellie suppressed the desire to cry out, “I told you so!” Instead she
said very calmly: “Why, that's a fine idea, Uncle. Business _is_
picking up, and it would be nice to have more room. I'm glad you
thought of it.”


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Why does the story begin so abruptly?

     2. What is the character of Job Lansing?

     3. What is the character of Ellie?

     4. How does the author explain that Ellie has views that do not
        harmonize with her uncle's views?

     5. What advantage does the author gain from the setting of the
        story?

     6. How does the author make the story seem real?

     7. Why did the author introduce subordinate characters?

     8. Divide the story into its component incidents.

     9. At what point is the reader's interest greatest?

    10. At what point is Ellie's success certain?

    11. Which incident has the greatest emphasis?

    12. How does the author make Ellie the principal character?

    13. What is the effect of the quick conclusion?

    14. How does the author make use of conversation as a means of
        telling events?

    15. On what one idea is the story founded?




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Write about a subject with which you are familiar, and with
which your readers are familiar. Make your principal character a
young person. Make your story concern the contrast of two
methods of accomplishment, one of which will represent the old
and least successful method; the other, the new and more successful.
Write a series of three or four briefly told incidents that will lead
to a climax. Make free use of conversation. Notice that the author
of _Getting Up to Date_ has left out much that might have been said,
and has thereby made the story crisp and emphatic. Make your
own story condensed and to the point. Pay particular attention to
writing a strong ending.




                        THE LION AND THE MOUSE
                           By JOSEPH B. AMES

    _(1878-). An American engineer and author. After his graduation
    from Stevens Institute Mr. Ames at first devoted himself entirely
    to engineering. He has been prominent in promoting the work of the
    Boy Scouts. Among his books are the following:_ The Mystery of Ram
    Island; Curly of the Circle Bar; Curly and the Aztec Gold; Pete the
    Cowpuncher; Under Boy Scout Colors; Shoe-Bar Stratton; The Emerald
    Buddha.

  =Realism and romance may be combined in a story of school life as
  well as in a story of any other kind. _The Lion and the Mouse_
  tells, in part, of ordinary, everyday events, and in part, of
  events that are distinctly out of the ordinary. The characters are
  the characters of school life,--two boys of entirely different
  natures but, after all, one at heart,--and subordinate characters
  who belong in the realm of real life. Many of the events of the
  story are commonplace enough. On this basis of reality there has
  been founded a story of quick event, a story of the unusual,
  entirely probable, centering around character and character
  development.=


Big Bill Hedges scowled out of the locker-room window and groaned
softly. There was something about that wide, unbroken sweep of snow
which affected him disagreeably. If only it had been crisscrossed by
footprints, or the tracks of snow-shoes or toboggans, he wouldn't have
minded it nearly so much. But there it lay, flat, white, untrodden,
drifting over low walls and turning the clumps of shrubbery into
shapeless mounds. And of a sudden he found himself hating it almost as
much as the dead silence of the endless, empty rooms about him. For it
was the fourth day of the Christmas vacation, and, save the kitchen
staff, there were only two other human beings in this whole great
barracks of a place.

“And neither of them is really human,” grunted Hedges, turning
restlessly from the window.

With a disgusted snort he recalled the behavior of those two, whom so
far he had met only at meal-time. Mr. Wilson, the tutor left in charge
of the school, consumed his food in a preoccupied sort of daze, rousing
himself at rare intervals to make some plainly perfunctory remark. He
was writing some article or other for the magazines, and it was all too
evident that the subject filled his waking hours. And “Plug” Seabury,
with his everlasting book propped up against a tumbler, was even worse.
But then Hedges had never expected anything from him.

Crossing to his locker, the boy pulled out a heavy sweater, stared at
it dubiously for a moment, and then let it dangle from his relaxed
fingers. For once the thought of violent physical exertion in the
open failed to arouse the least enthusiasm. Ever since the departure
of the fellows, he had skeed and snow-shoed and tramped through the
drifts--alone; and now the monotony was getting on his nerves. He flung
the sweater back, and, slamming the locker door, strolled aimlessly out
of the room.

One peep into the cold, lofty, empty “gym” effectually quelled his
half-formed notion of putting in an hour or two on the parallel bars.
“I'm lonesome!” he growled; “just--plumb--lonesome! It's the first time
I've ever wished I didn't live in Arizona.”

But the thought of home and Christmas cheer and all the other vanished
holiday delights was not one to dwell on now; he tried instead to
appreciate how absurd it would have been to spend eight of his twelve
holidays on the train.

A little further dawdling ended in his turning toward the library.
He was not in the least fond of reading. Life ordinarily, with its
constant succession of outdoor and indoor sports and games, was much
too full to think of wasting time with a book unless one had to. But
the thought occurred to him that to-day it might be a shade better than
doing absolutely nothing.

Opening the door of the long, low-ceiled, book-lined room, which he
had expected to find as desolately empty as the rest, he paused in
surprise. On the brick hearth a log fire burned cheerfully, and curled
up in an easy chair close to the hearth, was the slight figure of Paul
Seabury.

“Hello!” said Hedges, gruffly, when he had recovered from his surprise.
“You've sure made yourself comfortable.”

Seabury gave a start and raised his head. For a moment his look was
veiled, abstracted, as if his mind still lingered on the book lying
open in his lap. Then recognition slowly dawned, and a faint flush
crept into his face.

“The--the wood was here, and I--I didn't think there'd be any harm in
lighting it,” he said, thrusting back a straggling lock of brown hair.

“I don't s'pose there is,” returned Hedges, shortly. Unconsciously,
he was a little annoyed that Seabury should seem so comfortable and
content. “I thought you were upstairs.”

He dragged a chair to the other side of the hearth and plumped down in
it. “What you reading?” he asked.

Seabury's eyes brightened. “Treasure Island,” he answered eagerly.
“It's awfully exciting. I've just got to the place where--”

“Never read it,” interrupted the big fellow, indifferently. Lounging
back against the leather cushions, he surveyed the slim, brown-eyed,
rather pale-faced boy with a sort of contemptuous curiosity. “Do you
read _all_ the time?” he asked.

Again the blood crept up into Seabury's thin face and his lids drooped.
“Why, no--not all the time,” he answered slowly. “But--but just now
there's nothing else to do.”

Hedges grunted. “Nothing else to do! Gee-whiz! Don't you ever feel like
going for a tramp or something? I s'pose you can't snow-shoe, or skee,
but I shouldn't think you'd want to stay cooped up in the house all the
time.”

A faint, nervous smile curved the boy's sensitive lips. “Oh, I can skee
and snow-shoe all right, but--” He paused, noticing the incredulous
expression which Hedges was at no pains to hide. “Everybody does, where
I live in Canada,” he explained, “often it's the only way to get about.”

“Oh, I see.” Hedges' tone was no longer curt, and a sudden look of
interest had flashed into his eyes. “But don't you _like_ it? Doesn't
this snow make you want to go out and try some stunts?”

Seabury glanced sidewise through the casement windows at the sloping,
drifted field beyond. “N--no, I can't say it does,” he confessed
hesitatingly; “it's such a beastly, rotten day.”

His interest in Plug's unexpected accomplishments made Hedges forbear
to comment scornfully on such weakness.

“Rotten!” he repeated. “Why, it's not bad at all. It's stopped snowing.”

“I know; but it looks as if it would start in again any minute.”

“Shucks!” sniffed Hedges. “A little snow won't hurt you. Come ahead out
and let's see what you can do.”

Seabury hesitated, glancing with a shiver at the cold, white field
outside and back to the cheerful fire. He did not feel at all inclined
to leave his comfortable chair and this enthralling book. On the other
hand, he was curiously unwilling to merit Bill Hedges' disapproval.
From the first he had regarded this big, strong, dominating fellow with
a secret admiration and shy liking which held in it no touch of envy or
desire for emulation. It was the sort of admiration he felt for certain
heroes in his favorite books. When Hedges made some spectacular play
on the gridiron or pulled off an especially thrilling stunt on the
hockey-rink, Seabury, watching inconspicuously from the side-lines, got
all hot and cold and breathlessly excited. But he was quite content
that Hedges should be doing it and not himself. Sometimes, to be
sure, he wondered what it would be like to have such a person for a
friend. But until this moment Hedges had scarcely seemed aware of his
existence, and Seabury was much too shy to make advances, even when the
common misfortune of too-distant homes had thrown them together in the
isolation of the empty school.

“I--I haven't any skees,” he said at length.

Hedges sprang briskly to his feet. “That's nothing. I'll fix you up. We
can borrow Marston's. Come ahead.”

Swept along by his enthusiasm, Seabury closed his book and followed him
out into the corridor and down to the locker room. Here they got out
sweaters, woolen gloves and caps, and Hedges calmly appropriated the
absent Marston's skees.

Emerging finally into the open, Seabury shivered a little as the keen,
searching wind struck him. It came from the northeast, and there was a
chill, penetrating quality about it which promised more snow, and that
soon. By the time Seabury had adjusted the leather harness to his feet
and resumed his gloves, his fingers were blue and he needed no urging
to set off at a swift pace.

In saying that he could skee, the boy had not exaggerated. He was, in
fact, so perfectly at home upon the long, smooth, curved-up strips
of ash, that he moved with the effortless ease and grace of one
scarcely conscious of his means of locomotion. Watching him closely,
Hedges' expression of critical appraisement changed swiftly to one of
unqualified approval.

“You're not _much_ good on them, are you?” he commented. “I suppose you
can jump any old distance and do all sorts of fancy stunts.”

Seabury laughed. He was warm again and beginning to find an unwonted
pleasure in the swift, gliding motion and the tingling rush of frosty
air against his face.

“Nothing like that at all,” he answered. “I can jump some, of course,
but I'm really not much good at anything except just straight-away
going.”

“Huh!” grunted Hedges, sceptically. “I'll bet you could run circles
around any of the fellows here. Well, what do you say to taking a
little tramp. I've knocked around the grounds till I'm sick of them.
Let's go up Hogan Hill,” he added, with a burst of inspiration.

Seabury promptly agreed, though inwardly he was not altogether thrilled
at the prospect of such a climb. Hogan Hill rose steeply back of the
school. A few hay-fields ranged along its lower level, but above them
the timber growth was fairly thick, and Paul knew from experience that
skeeing on a wooded slope was far from easy.

As it turned out, Hedges had no intention of tackling the steep slope
directly. He knew of an old wood-road which led nearly to the summit by
more leisurely twists and curves, and it was his idea that they take
this as far as it went and then skee down its open, winding length.

By the time they were half-way up, Seabury was pretty well blown. It
was the first time he had been on skees in nearly a year, and his
muscles were soft from general lack of exercise. He made no complaint,
however, and presently Hedges himself proposed a rest.

“I wish I could handle the things as easily as you do,” he commented.
“I work so almighty hard that I get all in a sweat, while you just
glide along as if you were on skates.”

“I may glide, but I haven't any wind left,” confessed Seabury. “It's
only practice you know. I've used them ever since I was a little kid,
and compared to some of the fellows up home, I'm nowhere. Do you think
we ought to go any farther? I felt some snow on my face just then.”

“Oh, sure!” said Hedges, bluffly. “A little snow won't hurt us, anyhow,
and we can skee down in no time at all. Let's not go back just yet.”

Presently they started on again, and though Seabury kept silent, he was
far from comfortable in his mind. He had had more than one unpleasant
experience with sudden winter storms. It seemed to him wiser to turn
back at once, but he was afraid of suggesting it again lest Hedges
think him a quitter.

A little later, still mounting the narrow, winding trail, they came
upon a rough log hut, aged and deserted, with a sagging, half-open
door; but the two boys, unwilling to take off their skees, did not stop
to investigate it.

Every now and then during the next half mile trifling little gusts of
stinging snowflakes whirled down from the leaden sky, beat against
their faces, and scurried on. Seabury's feeling of nervous apprehension
increased, but Hedges, in his careless, self-confident manner merely
laughed and said that the trip home would be all the more interesting
for little diversions of that sort.

The words were scarcely spoken when, from the distance, there came a
curious, thin wailing of the wind, rising swiftly to a dull, ominous
roar. Startled, both boys stopped abruptly, and stared up the slope.
And as they did so, something like a vast, white, opaque curtain
surged over the crest of the hill and swept swiftly toward them.

Almost before they could draw a breath it was upon them, a dense,
blinding mass of snow, which whirled about them in choking masses and
blotted out the landscape in a flash.

“Wough!” gasped Hedges. “Some speed to that! I guess we'd better beat
it, kid, while the going's good.”

But even Hedges, with his easy, careless confidence, was swiftly forced
to the realization that the going was very far from good even then.
It was impossible to see more than a dozen yards ahead of them. As a
matter of course, the older fellow took the lead, but he had not gone
far before he ran off the track and only saved himself from a spill by
grabbing a small tree.

“Have to take it easy,” he commented, recovering his balance. “This
storm will let up soon; it can't possibly last long this way.”

Seabury made no answer. Shaking with nervousness, he could not trust
himself to speak.

Regaining the trail, Hedges started off again, cautiously enough at
first. But a little success seemed to restore his confidence, and he
began to use his staff as a brake with less and less frequency. They
had gone perhaps a quarter of a mile when a sudden heavier gust of
stinging flakes momentarily blinded them both. Seabury instantly put
on the brake and almost stopped. When he was able to clear his eyes,
Hedges was out of sight. An instant later there came a sudden crash, a
startled, muffled cry, and then--silence!

Horrified, Seabury instantly jerked his staff out of the snow and sped
forward. At first, he could barely see the tracks of his companion's
skees, but presently the storm lightened a trifle and of a sudden he
realized what had happened. Hedges had misjudged a sharp curve in the
trail and, instead of following it, had plunged off to one side and
down a steep declivity thickly grown with trees. At the foot of this
little slope Seabury found him lying motionless, a twisted heap, face
downward in the snow.

Sick with horror, the boy bent over that silent figure. “Bill!” he
cried, “what has--”

His voice died in a choking sob, but a moment later his heart leaped as
Hedges stirred, tried to rise, and fell back with a stifled groan.

“It's--my ankle,” he mumbled, “I--I've--turned it. See if you can't--”

With shaking fingers, Seabury jerked at the buckles of his skees and
stepped out of them. Hedges' left foot was twisted under him, and the
front part of his skee was broken off. As Paul freed the other's feet
from their encumbering straps, Bill made a second effort to rise, but
his face turned quite white and he sank back with a grunt of pain.

“Thunder!” he muttered. “I--I believe it's sprained.”

For a moment or two he sat there, face screwed up, arms gripping his
knees. Then, as his head cleared, he looked up at the frightened
Seabury, a wry smile twisting the corners of his mouth.

“I'm an awful nut, kid,” he said. “I forgot that curve and was going
too fast to pull up. Reckon I deserve that crack on the head and all
the rest of it for being so awfully cocky. Looks as if we were in
rather a mess, doesn't it?”

Seabury nodded, still unable to trust himself to speak. But Hedges'
coolness soothed his jangled nerves, and presently a thought struck him.

“That cabin back there!” he exclaimed. “If we could only manage to get
that far--”

He paused and the other nodded. “Good idea,” he agreed promptly. “I'm
afraid I can't walk it, but I might be able to crawl.”

“Oh, I didn't mean that. If we only had some way of fastening my skees
together, you could lie down on them and I could pull you.”

A gleam of admiration came into the older chap's dark eyes. “You've got
your nerve with you, old man,” he said. “Do you know how much I weigh?”

“That doesn't matter,” protested Seabury. “It's all down hill; it
wouldn't be so hard. Besides, we can't stay here or--or we'll freeze.”

“Now you've said something,” agreed Hedges.

And it was true. Already Seabury's teeth were chattering, and even
the warmer blooded Hedges could feel the cold penetrating his thick
sweater. He tried to think of some other way out of their predicament,
but finally agreed to try the plan. His heavy, high shoes were laced
with rawhide thongs, which sufficed roughly to bind the two skees
together. There was no possibility, however, of pulling them. The only
way they could manage was for Hedges to seat himself on the improvised
toboggan while Seabury trudged behind and pushed.

It was a toilsome and painful method of progress for them both and
often jolted Hedges' ankle, which was already badly swollen, bringing
on a constant succession of sharp, keen stabs. Seabury, wading
knee-deep in the snow, was soon breathless, and by the time they
reached the cabin, he felt utterly done up.

“Couldn't have kept that up much longer,” grunted Hedges, when they
were inside the shelter with the door closed against the storm.

His alert gaze traveled swiftly around the bare interior. There was a
rough stone chimney at one end, a shuttered window at the back, and
that was all. Snow lay piled up on the cold hearth, and here and there
made little ridges on the logs where it had filtered through the many
cracks and crevices. Without the means of making fire, it was not much
better than the out-of-doors, and Hedges' heart sank as he glanced at
his companion, leaning exhausted against the wall.

“It's sure to stop pretty soon,” he said presently, with a confidence
he did not feel. “When it lets up a little, we might--”

“I don't believe it's going to let up.” Seabury straightened with an
odd, unwonted air of decision. “I was caught in a storm like this two
years ago and it lasted over two days. We've got to do something, and
do it pretty quick.”

Hedges stared at him, amazed at the sudden transformation. He did not
understand that a long-continued nervous strain will sometimes bring
about strange reactions.

“You're not thinking of pushing me all the way down the road, are you?”
he protested. “I don't believe you could do it.”

“I don't believe I could, either,” agreed the other, frankly. “But I
could go down alone and bring back help.”

“Gee-whiz! You--you mean skee down that road? Why, it's over three
miles, and you'd miss the trail a dozen times.”

“I shouldn't try the road,” said Seabury, quietly. His face was pale,
but there was a determined set to the delicate chin. “If I went
straight down the hill back of this cabin, I'd land close to the
school, and I don't believe the whole distance is over half a mile.”

Hedges gasped. “You're crazy, man! Why, you'd kill yourself in the
first hundred feet trying to skee through those trees.”

“I don't think so. I've done it before--some. Besides, most of the
slope is open fields. I noticed that when we started out.”

“But they're steep as the dickens, with stone walls, and--”

Seabury cut short his protests by buttoning his collar tightly about
his throat and testing the laces of his shoes. He was afraid to delay
lest his resolution should break down.

“I'm going,” he stated stubbornly; “and the sooner I get off, the
better.”

And go he did, with a curt farewell which astonished and bewildered his
companion who had no means of knowing that it was a manner assumed to
hide a desperate fear and nervousness. As the door closed between them,
Seabury's lips began to tremble; and his hands shook so that he could
scarcely tighten up the straps of his skees.

Back of the cabin, poised at the top of the slope, with the snow
whirling around him and the unknown in front, he had one horrible
moment of indecision when his heart lay like lead within him and he was
on the verge of turning back. But with a tremendous effort he crushed
down that almost irresistible impulse. He could not bear the thought of
facing Hedges, an acknowledged coward and a quitter. An instant later
a thrust of his staff sent him over the edge, to glide downward through
the trees with swiftly increasing momentum.

Strangely enough, he felt somehow that the worst was over. To begin
with, he was much too occupied to think of danger, and after he had
successfully steered through the first hundred feet or so of woods,
a growing confidence in himself helped to bolster up his shrinking
spirit. After all, save for the blinding snow, this was no worse than
some of the descents he had made of wooded slopes back there at home.
If the storm did not increase, he believed that he could make it.

At first he managed, by a skilful use of his staff, to hold himself
back a little and keep his speed within a reasonable limit. But just
before he left the woods, the necessity for a sudden side-turn to avoid
a clump of trees through which he could not pass nearly flung him off
his balance. In struggling to recover it, the end of his staff struck
against another tree and was torn instantly from his grasp.

His heart leaped, then sank sickeningly, but there was no stopping now.
A moment later he flashed out into the open, swerved through a gap in
the rough, snow-covered wall, and shot down the steep incline with
swiftly increasing speed.

His body tense and bent slightly forward, his straining gaze set
unwaveringly ahead, striving to pierce the whirling, beating snow,
Seabury felt as if he were flying through the clouds. On a clear day,
with the ability to see what lay before him, there would have been
a rather delightful exhilaration in that descent. But the perilous
uncertainty of it all kept the boy's heart in his throat and chained
him in a rigid grip of cold fear.

Long before he expected it, the rounded, snow-covered bulk of a second
wall seemed to leap out of the blinding snow-curtain and rush toward
him. Almost too late, he jumped, and, soaring through the air, struck
the declining slope again a good thirty feet beyond.

In the lightning passage of that second field, he tried to figure
where he was coming out and what obstacles he might encounter, but
the effort was fruitless. He knew that the high-road, bordered by a
third stone wall, ran along the foot of the hill, with the school
grounds on the other side. But the speed at which he was traveling made
consecutive thought almost impossible.

Again, with that same appalling swiftness, the final barrier loomed
ahead. He leaped, and, at the very take-off, a gasp of horror was
jolted from his lips by the sight of a two-horse sledge moving along
the road directly in his path!

It was all over in a flash. Helpless to avoid the collision, Seabury
nevertheless twisted his body instinctively to the left. He was vaguely
conscious of a monstrous looming bulk; of a startled snort which sent a
wave of hot breath against his face, and the equally startled yell of a
human voice. The next instant he landed badly, his feet shot out from
under him, and he fell backward with a stunning crash.

His first conscious observation was of two strange faces bending over
him and of hands lifting him from where he lay half buried in the snow.
For a moment he was too dazed to speak or even to remember. Then, with
a surging rush of immense relief, he realized what had happened, and
gaining speech, he poured out a hurried but fairly coherent account of
the situation.

His rescuers proved to be woodsmen, perfectly familiar with the Hogan
Hill trail and the old log-cabin. Seabury's skees were taken off and he
was helped into the sledge and driven to the near-by school. Stiff and
sore, but otherwise unhurt, he wanted to go with them, but his request
was firmly refused; and pausing only long enough to get some rugs
and a heavy coat, the pair set off. Little more than two hours later
they returned with the injured Hedges, who was carried at once to the
infirmary to be treated for exposure and a badly sprained ankle.

His rugged constitution responded readily to the former, but the ankle
proved more stubborn, and he was ordered by the doctor not to attempt
even to hobble around on it for at least a week. As a result, Christmas
dinner had to be eaten in bed. But somehow Hedges did not mind that

[Illustration: =“At the very take-off, a gasp of horror was jolted from
                       his lips.”=]                    (_page 264_)

very much, for Paul Seabury shared it, sitting on the other side of a
folding table drawn up beside the couch.

Having consumed everything in sight and reached that state of repletion
without which no Christmas dinner may be considered really perfect,
the two boys relapsed for a space into a comfortable, friendly sort of
silence.

“Not _much_ on skees, are you?” commented Hedges, presently, glancing
quizzically at his companion.

Seabury flushed a little. “I wish you wouldn't,” he protested. “If you
had any idea how scared I was, and--and--Why, the whole thing was just
pure luck.”

Hedges snorted. “Bosh! You go tell that to your grandmother. There's
one thing,” he added; “as soon as I'm around again, you've got to come
out and give me some points. I thought I was fairly decent on skees,
but I guess after all I'm pretty punk.”

“I'll show you anything I can, of course,” agreed Seabury, readily.
He paused an instant and then went on hesitatingly: “I--I'm going to
do a lot more of that sort of thing from now on. It--it was simply
disgusting the way I got winded so soon and all tired out.”

“Sure,” nodded Hedges, promptly. “That's what I've always said. You
ought to take more exercise and not mope around by yourself so much.
But we'll fix that up all right from now on.” He paused. “Aren't you
going to read some more in 'Treasure Island'?” he asked expectantly.
“That's some book, believe me! What with you and that and everything,
I'm not going to mind being laid up at all.”

Seabury made no comment, but as he reached for the book and found
their place, the corners of his mouth curved with the beginnings of a
contented, happy smile.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. What is the character of Bill Hedges?

     2. What is the character of “Plug” Seabury?

     3. Why are both boys at the school in vacation time?

     4. What had been the past life of each boy?

     5. What had been their feeling for each other?

     6. What change does the story make in their feeling for each other?

     7. How does the author make the story seem probable?

     8. Show how the author leads to the climax of the story.

     9. Divide the story into its most important incidents.

    10. Show that the author is consistent in character presentation.

    11. How does the author make the climax powerful in effect?

    12. What makes the conclusion effective?

    13. What use does the author make of conversation?

    14. What is the proportion of description and explanation in the
        story?

    15. What are the good characteristics of the story?


                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Write a story that will be closely connected with school life. Use
the ordinary characters that are to be found in your school, but use
typical characters that will sum up well-recognized characteristics.
Base your story upon any sharp contrast in characters. Begin
your story by telling of everyday events, but make those events lead
quickly to events that are out of the ordinary. In like manner begin
with familiar surroundings and then lead your readers into surroundings
that will be less familiar and that will be an appropriate
setting for unusual action. Make the climax of your story powerful
by using suspense. Indicate that your hero is likely to be overcome.
Make his final success depend upon his resolution or good
spirit,--upon his character. Use much conversation. Omit everything
that will not contribute to the effect of the climax.




    _(1878). Editor of The Literary Review; Assistant Editor of The
    Yale Review, and Assistant Professor of English in the Sheffield
    Scientific School. He is author and co-author of many books on
    English, among which are:_ The Short Story; Facts, Thought and
    Imagination; _and_ Good English.

  =The critical essay comments on a fault,--but it does no more: it
  makes no searching analysis and it points to no specific remedy.=

  =_Coddling in Education_ is a critical essay. It points at what its
  author believes is a serious fault in American education. Like all
  critical essays it aims at reform, but it merely suggests the means
  of reform.=

  =Many of the editorial articles in newspapers are examples of the
  critical essay.=


American minds have been coddled in school and college for at least
a generation. There are two kinds of mental coddling. The first
belongs to the public schools, and is one of the defects of our
educational system that we abuse privately and largely keep out of
print. It is democratic coddling. I mean, of course, the failure to
hold up standards, the willingness to let youth wobble upward, knowing
little and that inaccurately, passing nothing well, graduating with
an education that hits and misses like an old type-writer with a
torn ribbon. America is full of “sloppy thinking,” of inaccuracy,
of half-baked misinformation, of sentimentalism, especially
sentimentalism, as a result of coddling by schools that cater to an
easy-going democracy. Only fifty-six per cent. of a group of girls,
graduates of the public schools, whose records I once examined, could
do simple addition, only twenty-nine per cent. simple multiplication
correctly; a deplorable percentage had a very inaccurate knowledge of
elementary American geography.

A dozen causes are responsible for this condition, and among them, I
suspect, one, which if not major, at least deserves careful pondering.
The teacher and the taught have somehow drifted apart. His function
in the large has been to teach an ideal, a tradition. He is content,
he has to be content, with partial results. It is not for life as it
is, it is for what life ought to be, that he is preparing even in
arithmetic; he has allowed the faint unreality of a priestcraft to numb
him. In the mind of the student a dim conception has entered, that this
education--all education--is a garment merely, to be doffed for the
struggle with realities. The will is dulled. Interest slackens.

But it is in aristocratic coddling that the effects of our educational
attitude gleam out to the least observant understanding. This is the
coddling of the preparatory schools and the colleges, and it is more
serious for it is a defect that cannot be explained away by the hundred
difficulties that beset good teaching in a public-school system,
nation-wide, and conducted for the young of every race in the American
menagerie. The teaching in the best American preparatory schools and
colleges is as careful and as conscientious as any in the world. That
one gladly asserts. Indeed, an American boy in a good boarding-school
is handled like a rare microbe in a research laboratory. He is
ticketed; every instant of his time is planned and scrutinized; he is
dieted with brain food, predigested, and weighed before application. I
sometimes wonder if a moron could not be made into an Abraham Lincoln
by such a system--if the system were sound.

It is not sound. The boys and girls, especially the boys, are coddled
for entrance examinations, coddled through freshman year, coddled
oftentimes for graduation. And they too frequently go out into the
world fireproof against anything but intellectual coddling. Such
men and women can read only writing especially prepared for brains
that will take only selected ideas, simply put. They can think only
on simple lines, not too far extended. They can live happily only
in a life where ideas never exceed the college sixty per cent. of
complexity, and where no intellectual or esthetic experience lies too
far outside the range of their curriculum. A world where one reads the
news and skips the editorials; goes to musical comedies, but omits
the plays; looks at illustrated magazines, but seldom at books; talks
business, sports, and politics, but never economics, social welfare,
and statesmanship--that is the world for which we coddle the best of
our youth. Many indeed escape the evil effects by their own innate
originality; more bear the marks to the grave.

The process is simple, and one can see it in the English public
school (where it is being attacked vivaciously) quite as commonly as
here. You take your boy out of his family and his world. You isolate
him except for companionship with other nursery transplantings and
teachers themselves isolated. And then you feed him, nay, you cram
him, with good traditional education, filling up the odd hours with
the excellent, but negative, passion of sport. Then you subject him to
a special cramming and send him to college, where sometimes he breaks
through the net of convention woven about him, and sees the real world
as it should appear to the student before he becomes part of it; but
more frequently wraps himself deep and more deeply in conventional
opinion, conventional practice, until, the limbs of his intellectual
being bound tightly, he stumbles into the outer world.

And there, in the swirl and the vivid practicalities of American life,
is the net loosened? I think not. I think rather that the youth learns
to swim clumsily despite his encumbrances of lethargic thinking and
tangled idealism. But if they are cut? If he goes on the sharp rocks
of experience, finds that hardness, shrewdness, selfish individualism
pay best in American life, what has he in his spirit to meet this
disillusion? Of what use has been his education in the liberal,
idealistic traditions of America? Of some use, undoubtedly, for habit,
even a dull habit, is strong; but whether useful enough, whether
powerful enough, to save America, to keep us “white” in the newer and
more colloquial sense, the future will test and test quickly.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

        1. Explain what the writer means by “coddling.”
        2. Define “democratic coddling.”
        3. Define aristocratic “coddling.”
        4. What are the results of “coddling”?
        5. What are the causes of “coddling”?
        6. What is the writer's ideal of education?
        7. What criticism of American life does the essay present?
        8. Point out effective phrasing.




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Plan to emphasize some original phrasing like “Coddling in School
and College.” Use familiar words that every one will understand
but use them in some new relation.

Make your essay point at a really serious fault that will be worthy of
attack. Do not go into details, but make your writing represent your
honest opinion.

Use expressions that will represent you, and that will make your essay
personal in nature. Notice how Mr. Canby makes use of such words as
“wobble,” “sloppy,” “half-baked,” “coddle,” “cram” and “white.” Notice,
too, how many conversational short sentences Mr. Canby uses. His essay
is like a vigorous talk. Make your own essay equally personal and
equally vigorous.




                         A SUCCESSFUL FAILURE
                            By GLENN FRANK

    _(1887-). Editor of_ The Century Magazine. _He is a member of
    many important associations, and was one of ex-President Taft's
    associates in suggesting a covenant for the League of Nations. His
    magazine articles are notable for constructive thought._

  =Any subject is appropriate material for the essayist, and any
  method of treatment is satisfactory so long as the writer gives us
  his personal reaction on some province of human thought.=

  =The following critical essay begins with the writer's account of a
  series of papers that he once read. To this he adds his own serious
  comment, and he concludes his work by suggesting an ideal. In doing
  all this he makes free use of the pronoun “I,” and writes in an
  informal style.=

  =The work is therefore not hard and fast logic, but mature and
  serious comment on life.=


Several years ago there appeared a series of papers that purported to
be the confessions of a successful man who was under no delusion as to
the essential quality of his attainments. The papers are not before me
as I write, and I must trust to memory and a few penciled notes made
at the time of their appearance, but it will be interesting to recall
his confessions regarding his education. I think they paint a fairly
faithful picture of the mind of the average college graduate.

He stated that he came from a family that prided itself on its culture
and intellectuality and that had always been a family of professional
folk. His grandfather was a clergyman; among his uncles were a lawyer,
a physician, and a professor; his sisters married professional men.
He received a fairly good primary and secondary education, and was
graduated from his university with honors. He was, he stated, of a
distinctly literary turn of mind, and during his four years at college
imbibed some slight information concerning the English classics
as well as modern history and metaphysics, so that he could talk
quite glibly about Chaucer,[136] Beaumont, and Fletcher,[137] Thomas
Love Peacock,[138] and Ann Radcliffe,[139] and speak with apparent
familiarity about Kant[140] and Schopenhauer.[141]

But, in turning to self-analysis, he stated that he later saw that his
smattering of culture was neither broad nor deep; that he acquired no
definite knowledge of the underlying principles of general history, of
economics, of languages, of mathematics, of physics, or of chemistry;
that to biology and its allies he paid scarcely any attention at
all, except to take a few snap courses; that he really secured only
a surface acquaintance with polite English literature, mostly very
modern, the main part of his time having been spent in reading
Stevenson[142] and Kipling.[143] He did well in English composition,
he said, and pronounced his words neatly and in a refined manner. He
concluded the description of his college days by saying that at the end
of his course, twenty-three years of age, he was handed an imitation
parchment degree and proclaimed by the president of the college as
belonging to the brotherhood of educated men. On this he commented:

  I did not. I was an imitation educated man; but though spurious,
  I was a sufficiently good counterfeit to pass current for what
  I was declared to be. Apart from a little Latin, considerable
  training in writing the English language, and a great deal of
  miscellaneous reading of an extremely light variety, I really
  had no culture at all. I could not speak an idiomatic sentence
  in French or German. I had only the vaguest ideas about applied
  science or mechanics and no thorough knowledge about anything; but
  I was supposed to be an educated man, and on this stock in trade I
  have done business ever since, with the added capital of a degree
  of LL.B. Now, since graduation, twenty-seven years ago, I have
  given no time to the systematic study of any subject except law. I
  have read no serious works dealing with either history, sociology,
  economics, art, or philosophy. I have rarely read over again any of
  the masterpieces of English literature with which I had at least
  a bowing acquaintance when at college. Even this last sentence I
  must qualify to the extent of admitting that now I see that this
  acquaintance was largely vicarious, and that I frequently read more
  criticism than literature.

  I was taught about Shakespeare, but not Shakespeare. I was
  instructed in the history of literature, but not in literature
  itself. I knew the names of the works of numerous English authors
  and knew what Taine[144] and others thought about them, but I knew
  comparatively little of what was between the covers of the books
  themselves. I was, I find, a student of letters by proxy. As time
  went on I gradually forgot that I had not in fact actually perused
  these volumes, and to-day I am accustomed to refer familiarly to
  works I have never read at all.

  I frankly confess that my own ignorance is abysmal. In the last
  twenty-seven years what information I have acquired has been picked
  up principally from newspapers and magazines; yet my library table
  is littered with books on modern art and philosophy and with essays
  on literary and historical subjects. I do not read them. They are
  my intellectual window-dressings. I talk about them with others
  who, I suspect, have not read them either, and we confine ourselves
  to generalities, with careful qualifications of all expressed
  opinions, no matter how vague or elusive.

This quotation is made from slightly abbreviated notes and may be
guilty of some verbal variation from the text, but it is entirely
accurate as to content. As I remember the paper, the writer went on
to catalogue his educational shortcomings in the various fields of
interest, confessing fundamental ignorance, save for superficial
smatterings of information, of art, history, biography, music, poetry,
politics, science, and economics. He painted an amusing picture of
the hollow pretense of culture with which the average man of his type
covers his intellectual poverty. Men of his type speak casually, he
said, of Henry of Navarre,[145] Beatrice d'Este,[146] or Charles the
Fifth,[147] without knowing within two hundred years when any of them
lived or what was their rôle. His lack of knowledge goes deeper than
mere names and dates; it goes, he said, to the significance of events
themselves. For an illustration at random, he knew nothing about what
happened on the Italian peninsula until Garibaldi,[148] and really
never knew just who Garibaldi was until he read Trevelyan's[149] three
books on the Risorgimento, the only serious books he had read in years,
and he read them because he had taken a motor trip through Italy the
summer before. He knew virtually nothing of Spain, Russia, Poland,
Turkey, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Holland, or Belgium. He described his
type going to the Metropolitan Opera House, hearing the best music at
big prices, content to murmur vague ecstasies over Caruso, in ignorance
of who wrote the opera or what it is all about, lacking enough virile
intellectual curiosity even to spend an hour reading about the opera in
one of the many available hand-books.

Coming to the vital matters of public affairs, he confessed that,
although holding a prominent place on the citizens' committee at
election-time, he knew nothing definite about the city's departments or
its fiscal administration. He could not direct a poor man to the place
where he might obtain relief. He knew the city hall by sight, but had
never been in it. He had never visited the Tombs[150] or the criminal
courts, never entered a police station, a fire-house, or prison of
the city. He did not know whether police magistrates were appointed or
elected, nor in what congressional district he resided. He did not know
the name of his alderman, assemblyman, state senator, or representative
in Congress. He did not know who was head of the street-cleaning,
health, fire, park, or water departments of his city. He could name
only five of the members of the Supreme Court, three of the secretaries
in the President's cabinet, and only one of the congressmen from
his State. He had never studied save in the most superficial manner
the single tax, minimum wage, free trade, protection, income tax,
inheritance tax, the referendum, the recall, and other vital questions.

Of the authorship of these anonymous confessions I know nothing. They
may have been fiction instead of biography, for all I know. But their
content would still be true were their form fiction. I have recalled
these confessions at length because in my judgment they present an
uncomfortably true analysis of the average American college graduate's
mind, his range of interests, and his grasp of those fundamentals which
underlie a citizen's worth in a democracy. It is from the college
graduates of this country that we must look for our leaders in the
complex and baffling years ahead, and it is a matter of the gravest
concern to the country if we are raising up a generation of men, into
whose hands leadership will pass, whose minds have been atrophied by
superficial study, whose imagination is unlit, who have an apathetic
indifference toward the supreme issues of our political, social, and
industrial life, who lack capacity and background for the analysis of
broad questions and for creative thinking. If these confessions of
“The Goldfish” papers tell a true story, if we are failing to produce
a leader class adequate to meet the needs of the present time, as it
seems to me there is sound evidence to prove, then it behooves us to
reëxamine, reconceive, and reorganize our colleges.

If we are to raise up adequate leadership for the future, our colleges
must contrive to give to students a genuinely liberal education that
will make them intelligent citizens of the world; an education that
will make the student at home in the modern world, able to work in
harmony with the dominant forces of his age, not at cross-purposes to
them; an education that will acquaint him with the physical, social,
economic, and political aspects, laws, and forces of his world; an
education that will furnish to the student that adequate background
and primary information needed for the interpretation of current life;
an education that will help the student to plot out the larger world
beyond the campus; an education that will give the student an interest
in those events and issues in which people generally are concerned; an
education that will enable the student to give intelligent and informed
consideration to the significant political and economic problems of
American life; an education that will provide the student with a sort
of Baedeker's[151] guide to civilization; in short, an education that
will make for that spacious-minded type of citizen which alone can
bring adequate leadership to a democracy.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Apply the writer's criticism to work done in school.

     2. What should be the purpose of public school education?

     3. What advantage does the writer gain by quoting from the
        “successful failure”?

     4. Why does the writer give only a résumé of some of the words of
        the “successful failure”?

     5. What is real culture?

     6. What is the difference between “passing” and “learning”?

     7. What is an “imitation parchment degree”?

     8. How long should a person pursue systematic study?

     9. What principles should guide a person in reading books?

    10. What is the difference between being “taught about Shakespeare”
        and being “taught Shakespeare”?

    11. What is the proper attitude toward newspaper reading?

    12. What is “intellectual window-dressing”?

    13. What should one know of history?

    14. What should one know concerning various lands?

    15. On what should real appreciation of music depend?

    16. How should education contribute to political life?

    17. What is the importance of education in the United States?

    18. What is the basis of real leadership?

    19. Make a list of the “vital matters of public affair” on which the
        writer believes people should be informed.

    20. On how many of these subjects are you informed?




                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

If you cannot quote from the words of written articles you can
at least quote from what people have said in conversation. You
can also make full use of your own experience. Begin your essay,
as Mr. Frank begins his, by making some statement of actual experience.
When you have done this add original comments that will
lead, in the end, to a wise suggestion for the future. Both by the
use of the pronoun “I,” and by a certain informality of style, make
your work personal.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[136] Geoffrey Chaucer (1340-1400). Author of _The Canterbury Tales_, a
series of realistic narratives in verse.

[137] Francis Beaumont (1584-1616) and John Fletcher (1579-1625). Two
of the most celebrated of Shakespeare's contemporaries. They wrote in
collaboration, and produced at least 52 plays.

[138] Thomas Love Peacock (1785-1866). Author of a number of highly
original and witty novels.

[139] Ann Radcliffe (1764-1823). An English novelist who wrote chiefly
of the mysterious and terrible, as in _The Mysteries of Udolpho_, her
most famous book.

[140] Immanuel Kant (1724-1804). A great German philosopher, one of the
most profound thinkers who ever lived.

[141] Arthur Schopenhauer (1788-1860). A German philosopher noted for
his pessimistic beliefs.

[142] Robert Louis Stevenson (1850-1894). Novelist, essayist, poet and
traveler, noted for his personal appeal and the charm of his style.

[143] Rudyard Kipling (1865--). A popular present-day novelist, short
story writer and poet.

[144] Hippolyte Adolphe Taine (1828-1893). A French critic, especially
noted for his _History of English Literature_.

[145] Henry of Navarre (1553-1610). King of Navarre and later King of
France, author of the celebrated _Edict of Nantes_.

[146] Beatrice d'Este (1475-1497). A beautiful and highly cultured
Duchess of Milan who, in spite of her early death, deeply influenced
the intellectual leaders of her time.

[147] Charles the Fifth (1500-1558). A masterful and virile Emperor of
the Holy Roman Empire.

[148] Giuseppe Garibaldi (1807-1882). A great Italian patriot who
aided in bringing about the unification of Italy. He was at one time a
citizen of the United States, and was employed in a candle factory on
Staten Island, New York.

[149] George Macaulay Trevelyan (1876). An English historian, author of
important works on Garibaldi.

[150] The Tombs. A New York City prison.

[151] Karl Baedeker (1801-1859). The originator of Baedeker's _Guide
Books_ to various lands.




                       THE DROLLERIES OF CLOTHES
                           By AGNES REPPLIER


    _(1858-). One of the most noted American essayists. Among her books
    are:_ Essays in Miniature; Essays in Idleness; In the Dozy Hours; A
    Happy Half Century; Americans and Others.

  =Miss Agnes Repplier for many years has kept her high place as one
  of the most popular American essayists. She has written upon a
  great variety of subjects, and always with charm and substantial
  thought. The essay on _The Drolleries of Clothes_ shows with how
  much good spirit one may write even a critical essay.=


In that engaging volume, “The Vanished Pomps of Yesterday,” Lord
Frederic Hamilton,[152] commenting on the beauty and grace of the
Austrian women, observes thoughtfully: “In the far-off seventies ladies
did not huddle themselves into a shapeless mass of abbreviated oddments
of material. They dressed, and their clothes fitted them. A woman upon
whom nature has bestowed a good figure was able to display her gifts to
the world.”

That a woman to whom nature had been less kind was compelled to display
her deficiencies is a circumstance ignored by Hamilton, who, being a
man of the world and a man of fashion, regarded clothes as the insignia
of caste. The costly costumes, the rich and sweeping draperies in
which he delighted, were not easy of imitation. The French ladies who
followed the difficult lead of the Empress Eugenia[153] supported the
transparent whiteness of their billowy skirts with at least a dozen
fine, sheer petticoats. Now it is obvious that no woman of the working
classes (except a blanchisseuse de fin[154] who might presumably wear
her customers' laundry) could afford a dozen white petticoats. But when
it comes to stripping off a solitary petticoat, no one is too poor or
too plain to be in the fashion. When it comes to clipping a dress at
the knee, the factory girl is as fashionable as the banker's daughter,
and far more at her ease. Her “abbreviated oddments” are a convenience
in the limited spaces of the mill, and she is hardier to endure
exposure. She thanks the kindly gods who have fitted the fashions to
her following, and she takes a few more inches off her solitary garment
to make sure of being in the style.

Not that women of any class regard heat or cold, comfort or discomfort,
as a controlling factor in dress. In this regard they are less highly
differentiated from the savage than are men, who, with advancing
civilization, have modified their attire into something like conformity
to climate and to season. The savage, even the savage who, like the
Tierra del Fuegian,[155] lives in a cold country, considers clothes
less as a covering than as an adornment. So also do women, who take
a simple primitive delight in garments devoid of utilitarianism. For
the past half-dozen years American women have worn furs during the
sweltering heat of American summers. Perhaps by the sea, or in the
mountains, a chill day may now and then warrant this costume; but on
the burning city streets the fur-clad females, red and panting, have
been pitiful objects to behold. They suffered, as does the Polar bear
in August in the zoo; but they suffered irrationally, and because they
lacked the wit to escape from self-inflicted torment.

For the past two winters women have worn fur coats or capes which
swathed the upper part of their bodies in voluminous folds, and stopped
short at the knee. From that point down, the thinnest of silk stockings
have been all the covering permitted. The theory that, if one part
of the body be protected, another part may safely and judiciously be
exposed, has ever been dear to the female heart. It may be her back,
her bosom, or her legs which the woman selects to exhibit. In any case
she affirms that the uncovered portions of her anatomy never feel the
cold. If they do, she endures the discomfort with the stoicism of the
savage who keeps his ornamental scars open with irritants, and she is
nerved to endurance by the same impelling motive.

This motive is not personal vanity. Vanity has had little to do with
savage, barbarous, and civilized customs. The ancient Peruvians who
deformed their heads, pressing them out of shape; the Chinese who
deform their feet, bandaging them into balls; the Africans who deform
their mouths, stretching them with wooden discs; the Borneans who
deform their ears, dragging the lobes below their shoulder blades;
the European and American women who deformed their bodies, tightening
their stays to produce the celebrated “hour-glass” waist, have all been
victims of something more powerful than vanity, the inexorable decrees
of fashion.

As a matter of fact the female mind is singularly devoid of illusions.
Women do not think their layers of fat or their protruding collar bones
beautiful and seductive. They display them because fashion makes no
allowance for personal defects, and they have not yet reached that
stage of civilization which achieves artistic sensibility, which
ordains and preserves the eternal law of fitness. They know, for
example, that nuns, waitresses, and girls in semi-military uniforms
look handsomer than they are, because of straight lines and adroit
concealment; but they fail to derive from this knowledge any practical
guidance.

I can remember when “pull-back” skirts and bustles were in style. They
were uncomfortable, unsanitary, and unsightly. Their wearers looked
grotesquely deformed, and knew it. They submitted to fate, and prayed
for a speedy deliverance. The fluctuations of fashion are alternately a

[Illustration: =“The fluctuations of fashion are alternately a grievance
                         and a solace.”=]                (_page 280_)

grievance and a solace. John Evelyn,[156] commenting on the dress worn
by Englishmen in the time of Charles the First,[157] says that it was
“a comely and manly habit, too good to hold.” It did not hold because
the Puritans, who saw no reason why manliness should be comely, swept
it aside. The bustle was much too bad to hold. It grew beautifully less
every year, and then suddenly disappeared. Many dry eyes witnessed its
departure.

If abhorrence of a fashion cannot keep women from slavishly following
it, they naturally remain unmoved by outside counsel and criticism.
For years the doctors exhausted themselves proclaiming the disastrous
consequences of tight-lacing, which must certainly be held responsible
for the obsolete custom of fainting. For years satirists and moralists
united in attacking the crinoline. In _Watson's Annals_, 1856, a
virtuous Philadelphian published a solemn protest against Christian
ladies wearing enormous hoops to church, thereby scandalizing and, what
was worse, inconveniencing the male congregation. When the Great War
started a wave of fatuous extravagance, it was solemnly reported that
Mrs. Lloyd George was endeavoring to dissuade the wives of workingmen
from buying silk stockings and fur coats. When the Great Peace let
loose upon us the most fantastic absurdities known for half a century,
the papers bristled with such hopeful headlines as these: “Club Women
Approve Sensible Styles of Dress,” “Social Leaders Condemn Indecorous
Fashions,” “Crusade in Churches Against Prevailing Scantiness of
Attire,” and so on, and so on indefinitely.

And to what purpose? The unrest of a rapidly changing world broke down
the old supremacies, smashed all appreciable standards, and left us
only a vague clutter of impressions. When a woman's dress no longer
indicates her fortune, station, age, or honesty, we have reached the
twilight of taste; but such dim, confused periods are recurrent in
the history of sociology. The girl who works hard and decently for
daily bread, but who walks the streets with her little nose whitened
like concrete, and her little cheeks reddened like brick-dust, and
her little under-nourished body painfully evidenced to the crowd, is
tremulously imitating the woman of the town; but the most inexperienced
eye catalogues her at a glance. Let us be grateful for her sake if she
bobs her hair, for that is a cleanly custom, whereas the great knobs
which she formerly wore over her ears harbored nests of vermin. It is
one of the comedies of fashion that short hair, which half a century
ago indicated strongmindedness, now represents the utmost levity; just
as the bloomers of 1852 stood for stern reform, and the attempted
trousers of 1918 stood for lawlessness. Both were rejected by women
who have never been unaware that the skirt carries with it an infinite
variety of possibilities.

        A winning wave, deserving note,
        In the tempestuous petticoat,

wrote Evelyn's contemporary, Herrick,[158] who was more concerned with
the comeliness of Julia's clothes than with his own.

There is still self-revelation in dress, but not personal
self-revelation. We may still apply the test of costume to people and
to periods, but not safely to individuals, who suffer from coercion.
Women's ready-made clothes are becoming more and more like liveries. A
dozen shop windows, a dozen establishments, display the same model over
and over again, the materials and prices varying, the gown always the
same. The lines may lack distinction, and the colors may lack serenity;
but then distinction and serenity are not the great underlying
qualities of our fretted age. The “abbreviated oddments,” with their
strange admixture of the bizarre and the commonplace, strike a purely
modern note. They are democratic. They are as appropriate, or, I might
say, as inappropriate, to one class of women as to another. They are
helping, more than we can know, to level the barriers of caste.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Summarize what the essay says in criticism of modern fashions.

     2. What does the essay say concerning fashions in the past?

     3. Summarize Miss Repplier's suggestions for ideal costumes.

     4. Explain why the writer refers to the fashions of savages.

     5. By what means does the writer give interest to her work?

     6. How does the essay differ from an ordinary informational
        article?

     7. What advantage does the writer gain by referring to various
        works of literature?

     8. How does the writer avoid harshness of criticism?

     9. What is the general plan of the essay?

    10. What does the article show concerning Miss Repplier?



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Your object is to write, in a critical vein, about some modern
custom, and to write without bitterness. Embody your criticism in
mild humor. Find something good even in the midst of what is bad.
Above all, draw definite examples from literature and history, in
order to make your thought have weight.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[152] Lord Frederic Hamilton (1856--). An English diplomat and editor.
He has travelled in many lands. Among his works are: _The Holiday
Adventures of Mr. P. J. Davenant_; _Lady Eleanor_; _The Vanished Pomps
of Yesterday_.

[153] Empress Eugenia (1826-1920). A Spanish Countess who in 1853
became the wife of Napoleon III of France and the natural leader of
French society.

[154] Blanchisseuse de fin. A laundress.

[155] Tierra del Fuegian. An inhabitant of the archipelago at the
extreme southern end of South America.

[156] John Evelyn (1620-1706). The author of a diary kept from
1624-1706 in which he gives a wealth of information concerning life in
his period.

[157] Charles I (1600-1649). King of England from 1625 to 1649. He
was overthrown and beheaded by the adherents of the parliamentary, or
Puritan, forces.

[158] Robert Herrick (1591-1674). An English poet, author of many
charming poems, one of which is _Gather Ye Rosebuds While Ye May_.




    _Madame Ozaki is the wife of a former mayor of Tokyo and former
    Minister of Justice in the Okuma Cabinet. She writes for many
    magazines. Among her books are:_ Warriors of Old Japan; The
    Japanese Fairy Book; Romances of Old Japan.

  =The essay is so natural an expression of the writer's personality
  that it has much in common with lyric poetry. Both the essay and
  the lyric, at their best, are ardent expressions of self. When
  the emotion in either is deep and genuine the language takes on
  richness of rhythm, and the effect becomes entirely poetic. Many of
  the best essays contain passages that in all except meter and rime
  are poems,--prose poems.=

  =_Children_ is an example of highly poetic prose.=


Let us love our children serenely, devotedly, even passionately. Surely
in their innocence and angelic simplicity they play on the threshold
of heaven. Let us hush our noisy activities and stale anxieties, and
under the trees and in the open that they love listen to the words of
refreshing wisdom dropping like jewels from their naïve lips.

Let us be willing to sit at their dainty little feet, so unused to the
dusty roads of this world, and learn from them divinest lessons. Let us
with uplifted hearts realize our responsibility when with unconscious
humility they accept us as their guides in the sweet, fresh morning of
their lives.

O sister-mothers in the world, let us awaken to a deeper sense of this
sublime trust, our high charge in the care of these immortal treasures,
only for a little while, such a little while, given into our keeping!
Let us make our hearts, our minds, our consciences worthy of these
transcendent marvels of life!

Oh, joy of joys! Oh, purest wonder! How often my children lift the
invisible veils that hide undreamed-of casements opening out on
luminous vistas of the mystical world in which they wander, roaming
fancy-free with keen and wondering delight!

Take me with you, oh, take me with you, children mine, when with
bright eyes and with kindled imagination, all spirit, fire and dew,
you sally forth on these highroads of discovery, to the elysiums of
your day-dreams, peopled by the souls of birds, animals, flowers and
pictures in happy communion!


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Point out examples of rhythmical sentences.

     2. Point out figures of speech.

     3. Point out words that have been chosen because of their charm, or
        their suggestive power.

     4. Show how the selection rises in emotion.

     5. How do children “play on the threshold of heaven”?

     6. What “refreshing wisdom” do children express?

     7. What “divinest lessons” may we learn from children?

     8. What “undreamed of casements” do children open?

     9. Explain the last paragraph.

    10. Point out all the respects in which this selection is like a
        poem.



                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

In order to write poetic prose you must write from genuine
emotion. Write about something that you really love. Choose your
words so that they will most clearly reveal your feelings. Think
of the deeper meanings and of the greater values of your subject.
Make your essay increase steadily in power until the very end.
Make it, like a good lyric poem, reveal the writer's best self in one
of his noblest moments.




              SHIPS THAT LIFT TALL SPIRES OF CANVAS[159]
                           By RALPH D. PAINE


    _(1871--). An American author and journalist, especially noted
    for excellent work as a war correspondent. Among his many books
    concerning the sea are the following:_ The Praying Skipper, and
    Other Stories; The Ships and Sailors of Old Salem; The Judgments of
    the Sea; The Adventures of Captain O'Shea; The Fighting Fleets; The
    Fight for a Free Sea. He is a frequent contributor to magazines.

  =_Ships That Lift Tall Spires of Canvas_ is practically a poem,
  although it is written in prose. It is an emotional expression
  of admiration for the sailing vessels of the past, and for the
  gallant sailors who manned them. It is evident that the author is
  familiar with many stories of romantic voyages and grim adventure
  on the deep, and that his emotion springs from his knowledge. That
  genuineness of feeling did much to lead him to choose suggestive
  words and to write in balanced and rhythmical sentences. All good
  style comes in large part from earnestness of thought or depth of
  emotion, and in smaller degree from knowledge of the rhetorical
  means of conveying thought or emotion.=

        =Oh, night and day the ships come in,
        The ships both great and small,
        But never one among them brings
        A word of him at all.
        From Port o' Spain and Trinidad,
        From Rio or Funchal,
        And along the coast of Barbary.=


Steam has not banished from the deep sea the ships that lift tall
spires of canvas to win their way from port to port. The gleam of their
topsails recalls the centuries in which men wrought with stubborn
courage to fashion fabrics of wood and cordage that would survive the
enmity of the implacable ocean and make the winds obedient. Their
genius was unsung, their hard toil forgotten, but with each generation
the sailing ship became nobler and more enduring, until it was a
perfect thing. Its great days live in memory with a peculiar atmosphere
of romance. Its humming shrouds were vibrant with the eternal call of
the sea, and in a phantom fleet pass the towering East Indiaman, the
hard-driven Atlantic packet, and the gracious clipper that fled before
the Southern trades.

A hundred years ago every bay and inlet of the New England coast were
building ships that fared bravely forth to the West Indies, to the
roadsteads of Europe, to the mysterious havens of the Far East. They
sailed in peril of pirate and privateer, and fought these rascals as
sturdily as they battled with wicked weather. Coasts were unlighted,
the seas uncharted, and navigation was mostly guesswork, but these
seamen were the flower of an American merchant marine whose deeds are
heroic in the nation's story. Great hearts in little ships, they dared
and suffered with simple, uncomplaining fortitude. Shipwreck was an
incident, and to be adrift in lonely seas or cast upon a barbarous
shore was sadly commonplace. They lived the stuff that made fiction
after they were gone.


                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

    1. Make a list of the most effective adjectives in the selection.

    2. Make a list of the words that do most to suggest the sea.

    3. Read aloud the most effective sentences.

    4. Point out examples of balanced construction.

    5. Show that the author has indicated the entire field of the
       subject.

    6. In what ways is the selection poetic?

    7. What famous books tell stories of sailing vessels?

    8. What books of the sea did Fenimore Cooper write?



[Illustration: =“Its humming shrouds were vibrant with the eternal call
                      of the sea.”=]                      (_page 287_)


                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

The subject that you select must be one concerning which you
know a great deal. It must be one that exists not only in your
brain but also in your heart.

When you have selected your subject make a list of the points that
appeal to you most, and that will represent every side of the subject.

When you write, let your emotion guide your pen. At the same time make
every effort to select words that will be full of suggestive power.
Write easily and rhythmically, and let your work end, as Mr. Paine's
does, in an especially effective sentence.


                              FOOTNOTES:

[159] From “Lost Ships and Lonely Seas,” by Ralph D. Paine. Copyright
by the Century Co.




                     PERSONALITY IN CORRESPONDENCE




           By THEODORE ROOSEVELT and AUGUSTUS SAINT-GAUDENS


    _(1858-1919). Twenty-sixth President of the United States. One of
    the most vigorous, courageous and picturesque figures in the public
    life of his day. Soon after his graduation from Harvard, and from
    Columbia Law School he entered public life, and gave invaluable
    service in many positions, becoming President in 1901, and again
    in 1904. His work as an organizer of the “Rough Riders,” his skill
    in horsemanship, his courage as an explorer and hunter, and his
    staunch patriotism and high ideals all made him both interesting
    and beloved. His work as an author is alone sufficient to make
    him great. Among his many books are_ The Winning of the West; The
    Strenuous Life; African Game Trails; True Americanism.

    _(1848-1907). One of the greatest American sculptors. His statues
    of Admiral Farragut, Abraham Lincoln, The Puritan, Peter Cooper,
    and General Sherman are noble examples of his art. Many other works
    of sculpture, including the beautiful “Diana” on Madison Square
    Garden Tower, New York, attest his rare skill. He excelled in what
    is called “relief.” His influence on American art was remarkably
    great. His portrait-plaque of Robert Louis Stevenson is especially
    interesting to lovers of literature._

  =The essay and the friendly letter are closely related. It is
  natural for one who writes a friendly letter to express himself
  freely and intimately, to make wise or humorous comments on life,
  to write meditatively of all the things that interest him,--in
  fact, to reveal himself in full. To do all that, even within the
  limited form of the letter, is to write an approach to an essay.
  Almost any one of the essays in this book might have been written
  as part of a friendly letter.=

  =The spirit of the essay, that of personality, should enter into all
  letters except those that are purely formal in nature. In fact, the
  amount of personality expressed in a letter is, often, a measure of
  the success of the letter.=

  =The following letters written by Theodore Roosevelt and Augustus
  Saint-Gaudens are, in a sense, business letters. In 1905 Mr.
  Roosevelt was president of the United States. He believed that
  the coins of the United States, like the coins of the ancient
  Greeks, should be beautiful. That he had the highest respect for
  the great sculptor, Augustus Saint-Gaudens, is shown by a letter
  that he wrote in 1903 concerning the impressively beautiful
  statue of General Sherman, that now stands at the 59th Street
  entrance to Central Park, New York City. In 1905 Mr. Roosevelt met
  Mr. Saint-Gaudens at a dinner in Washington and talked with him
  concerning the coinage of the United States and the possibility
  of improving it. The letters given in this book are part of the
  correspondence that followed this conversation.=

  =Both men had serious purpose in writing and both were intensely
  practical; yet each man wrote in a manner that is exceedingly
  personal. The letters have something of the spirit of the essay.=


                     THE STATUE OF GENERAL SHERMAN


   WHITE HOUSE
   WASHINGTON

                                                    OYSTER BAY, N. Y.
                                                       August 3, 1903.

   Personal

      _My dear Mr. Saint-Gaudens_:

Your letter was a great relief and pleasure to me. I had been told
that it was you personally who had opposed ----. I have no claim to be
listened to about these matters, save such claim as a man of ordinary
cultivation has. But I do think that ----, like Proctor, has done
excellent work in his wild-beast figures.

By the way, I was very glad that the Grant decision in Washington went
the way it did. The rejected figure, it seemed to me, fell between
two schools. It suggested allegory; and yet it did not show that high
quality of imagination which must be had when allegory is suggested.
The figure that was taken is the figure of the great general, the great
leader of men. It is not the greatest type of statue for the very
reason that there is nothing of the allegorical, nothing of the highest
type of the imaginative in it. But it is a good statue. Now to my mind
your Sherman is the greatest statue of a commander in existence. But I
can say with all sincerity that I know of no man--of course of no one
living--who could have done it. To take grim, homely, old Sherman, the
type and ideal of a democratic general, and put with him an allegorical
figure such as you did, could result in but one of two ways--a
ludicrous failure or striking the very highest note of the sculptor's
art. Thrice over for the good fortune of our countrymen, it was given
to you to strike this highest note.


      _My dear Saint-Gaudens_:

How is that old gold coinage design getting along? I want to make
a suggestion. It seems to me worth while to try for a really good
coinage; though I suppose there will be a revolt about it! I was
looking at some gold coins of Alexander the Great to-day, and I was
struck by their high relief. Would it not be well to have our coins in
high relief, and also to have the rims raised? The point of having the
rims raised would be, of course, to protect the figure on the coin;
and if we have the figures in high relief, like the figures on the old
Greek coins, they will surely last longer. What do you think of this?

With warm regards.


You have hit the nail on the head with regard to the coinage. Of course
the great coins (and you might almost say the only coins) are the Greek
ones you speak of, just as the great medals are those of the fifteenth
century by Pisanello and Sperandio. Nothing would please me more than




to make the attempt in the direction of the heads of Alexander, but
the authorities on modern monetary requirements would, I fear, “throw
fits,” to speak emphatically, if the thing was done now. It would be
great if it could be accomplished and I do not see what the objection
would be if the edges were high enough to prevent rubbing. Perhaps an
inquiry from you would not receive the antagonistic reply from those
who have the say in such matters that would certainly be made to me.

Up to the present I have done no work on the actual models for the
coins, but have made sketches, and the matter is constantly in my mind.
I have about determined on the composition of one side, which would
contain an eagle very much like the one I placed on your medal with
a modification that would be advantageous. On the other side I would
place a (possibly winged) figure of liberty striding energetically
forward as if on a mountain top holding aloft on one arm a shield
bearing the Stars and Stripes with the word “Liberty” marked across the
field, in the other hand, perhaps, a flaming torch. The drapery would
be flowing in the breeze. My idea is to make it a _living_ thing and
typical of progress.

Tell me frankly what you think of this and what your ideas may be. I
remember you spoke of the head of an Indian. Of course that is always
a superb thing to do, but would it be a sufficiently clear emblem of
Liberty as required by law?

I send you an old book on coins which I am certain you will find of
interest while waiting for a copy that I have ordered from Europe.



I have your letter of the 11th instant and return herewith the book on
coins, which I think you should have until you get the other one. I
have summoned all the mint people, and I am going to see if I cannot
persuade them that coins of the Grecian type but with the raised rim
will meet the commercial needs of the day. Of course I want to avoid
too heavy an outbreak of the mercantile classes, because after all
it is they who do use the gold. If we can have an eagle like that on
the Inauguration Medal, only raised, I should feel that we would be
awfully fortunate. Don't you think that we might accomplish something
by raising the figures more than at present but not as much as in the
Greek coins? Probably the Greek coins would be so thick that modern
banking houses, where they have to pile up gold, would simply be unable
to do so. How would it do to have a design struck off in a tentative
fashion--that is, to have a model made? I think your Liberty idea is
all right. Is it possible to make a Liberty with that Indian feather
head-dress? Would people refuse to regard it as a Liberty? The figure
of Liberty as you suggest would be beautiful. If we get down to
bed-rock facts would the feather head-dress be any more out of keeping
with the rest of Liberty than the canonical Phrygian cap which never is
worn and never has been worn by any free people in the world?

Thank you for your letter of the 14th and the return of the book on
coins.

I can perfectly well use the Indian head-dress on the figure of
Liberty. It should be very handsome. I have been at work for the last
two days on the coins and feel quite enthusiastic about it.

I enclose a copy of a letter to Secretary Shaw which explains itself.
If you are of my opinion and will help, I shall be greatly obliged.



I think something between the high relief of the Greek coins and the
extreme low relief of the modern work is possible, and as you suggest,
I will make a model with that in view.



I am now engaged on the models for the coinage. The law calls for,
viz., “On one side there shall be an impression emblematic of liberty,
with an inscription of the word 'liberty' and the year of the coinage.”
It occurs to me that the addition on this side of the coins of the word
“Justice” (or “Law,” preferably the former) would add force as well as
elevation to the meaning of the composition. At one time the words “In
God we trust” were placed on the coins. I am not aware that there was
authorization for that, but I may be mistaken.

Will you kindly inform me whether what I suggest is possible.


This is first class. I have no doubt we can get permission to put on
the word “Justice,” and I firmly believe that you can evolve something
that will not only be beautiful from the artistic standpoint, but
that, between the very high relief of the Greek and the very low relief
of the modern coins, will be adapted both to the mechanical necessities
of our mint production and the needs of modern commerce, and yet will
be worthy of a civilized people--which is not true of our present coins.



I have seen Shaw about that coinage and told him that it was my pet
baby. We will try it anyway, so you go ahead. Shaw was really very
nice about it. Of course he thinks I am a mere crack-brained lunatic
on the subject, but he said with great kindness that there was always
a certain number of gold coins that had to be stored up in vaults, and
that there was no earthly objection to having those coins as artistic
as the Greeks could desire. (I am paraphrasing his words, of course.) I
think it will seriously increase the mortality among the employees of
the mint at seeing such a desecration, but they will perish in a good
cause!



The mint people have come down, as you can see from the enclosed letter
which is in answer to a rather dictatorial one I sent to the Secretary
of the Treasury. When can we get that design for the twenty-dollar
gold piece? I hate to have to put on the lettering, but under the law
I have no alternative; yet in spite of the lettering I think, my dear
sir, that you have given us a coin as wonderful as any of the old Greek
coins. I do not want to bother you, but do let me have it as quickly as
possible. I would like to have the coin well on the way to completion
by the time Congress meets.

It was such a pleasure seeing your son the other day.

Please return Director Roberts' letter to me when you have noted it.



I hate to trouble you, but it is very important that I should have the
models for those coins at once. How soon may I have them?

With all good wishes, believe me,

I am afraid from the letter sent you on the fourteenth with the models
for the Twenty-Dollar Gold piece that you will think the coin I sent
you was unfinished. This is not the case. It is the final and completed
model, but I hold myself in readiness to make any such modifications as
may be required in the reproduction of the coin.

This will explain the words, “test model” on the back of each model.


Those models are simply immense--if such a slang way of talking is
permissible in reference to giving a modern nation one coinage at least
which shall be as good as that of the ancient Greeks. I have instructed
the Director of the Mint that these dies are to be reproduced just as
quickly as possible and just as they are. It is simply splendid. I
suppose I shall be impeached for it in Congress; but I shall regard
that as a very cheap payment!



     1. Why should a great statue have in it something of the
        allegorical?

     2. Describe Mr. Saint-Gaudens' statue of General Sherman.

     3. What does the first letter show concerning Mr. Roosevelt's
        opinion of the art of sculpture?

     4. In what ways are the old Greek coins beautiful?

     5. Point out essay-like freedom in the use of English.

     6. Point out passages that are notably personal.

     7. What were Mr. Roosevelt's plans for the making of United States
        coins?

     8. What were Mr. Saint-Gaudens' plans?

     9. Draw from the letters material for an essay on coinage.

    10. Show in what respects the letters have something of the spirit
        of the essay.


                    SUBJECTS FOR WRITTEN IMITATION

     1. A letter suggesting an inter-school debate.

     2. A letter inviting a graduate of the school to act as judge at a
        debate.

     3. A letter inviting a prominent citizen to address a society of
        which you are a member.

     4. A letter telling of your experiences in a place that you are
        visiting for the first time.

     5. A letter giving your opinion of a book that you have read
        recently.

     6. A letter telling your plans for the coming vacation.

     7. A letter concerning the use of an athletic field.

     8. A letter inviting the graduates of your school to come to a
        school festival or entertainment.

     9. A letter concerning music in your school.

    10. A letter giving an excuse for absence.

    11. A letter concerning work in photography.

    12. A letter concerning the work of prominent athletes.

    13. A letter concerning arrangements for class day exercises.

    14. A letter concerning graduation week.

    15. A letter to a teacher who has left the school.

    16. A letter to a person much older than you.

    17. A letter to a school in a foreign country.

    18. A letter to a school in another State.

    19. A letter written, in the name of your class, for publication in
    the school annual.

    20. A letter of congratulation.


                        DIRECTIONS FOR WRITING

Write your letter so that it will express a definite and practical
proposal. Express your own individual opinion modestly and tactfully.
Use language that will thoroughly represent yourself. Try, in all
ways possible, to avoid making your letter heavy, “cut-and-dried,”
conventional, and purely formal.




                          THE SYMBOLIC STORY




                               HI-BRASIL
                            By RALPH DURAND


     _An English traveller, soldier and author, who is still young and
     who has “followed the Sea Maid” over every ocean. Like the English
     poet, John Masefield, he served for a time as a sailor before
     the mast. He has seen life intimately in various out-of-the-way
     places, such as the South Sea Islands, Central Africa, and the
     Arctic Regions. In the World War he performed patriotic duty in the
     trenches and on Intelligence Staffs._

  =_Hi-Brasil_ is a charming and fascinating story, a symbolic
  narrative that most artistically combines realism and fancy, and
  appeals to the unfulfilled longings that every reader possesses.=

  =What is Hi-Brasil? It is the “Never-Never-Land,” the land of
  dreams, the land of longings. In this story it is specifically
  the land where the lost ships go. Who is the Sea Maid? She is the
  Spirit of Adventure, the love of whom calls men ever restlessly
  on. In this story she is the Spirit of the Sea. How skilfully
  Mr. Durand describes her in sea-words: “With sea-blue eyes” and
  “Wind-blown” hair; her laugh “Like the ripple of a stream that runs
  over a pebbly beach”; her song “Like the surge of breakers on a
  distant reef”; herself “As old as the sea, and a little older than
  the hills.”=

  =No one but a lover of the sea, and a lover also of bold enterprise
  and high deeds, could have written such a story, emphasizing as it
  does somewhat of the theme of Longfellow's _Excelsior_ and Poe's
  _Eldorado_--=



Peter Luscombe was the dullest man that ever audited an account.
Once when his neighbor at a dinner-party, having heard that he was
an authority on marine insurance, quoted Longfellow about “the
beauty and the mystery of the ships and the magic of the sea,” Peter
looked embarrassed and turned the conversation to the subject of
charter-parties.

His life was as carefully regulated as Big Ben. He caught the same
train every morning, dined at the same hour every evening, indexed his
private correspondence, and for recreation read Price's “Calculations.”
On Saturday afternoons he played golf.

One Summer a business matter took Peter to St. Mawes, and on his way
there he met the Sea Maid. To get to St. Mawes he had to cross Falmouth
Harbor by the public ferry.

Though till then he had had no more direct personal experience of the
sea than can be obtained from the Promenade at Hove, Peter was so
little interested in his surroundings that he spent the first part
of the ferry journey making notes of his personal expenditure since
leaving London, including tips, on the last page of his pocket-diary.
Midway across the harbor he chanced to look up and saw a yawl-rigged
fishing-boat--subconsciously he noticed the name _Maeldune_ painted on
her bows--running before the wind in the direction of Falmouth Quay.
An old, white-haired man, whose cheeks were the color of an Autumn
leaf, was sitting amidships tending the sheets, and at the tiller sat a
girl--a girl with sea-blue eyes and untidy, wind-blown, dark-brown hair.

She was bending forward, peering under the arched foot of the mainsail,
when Peter first caught sight of her. Their eyes met; the girl
smiled--and Peter dropped his pocket-diary into the dirty water that
washed about the ferryman's boots and stared after the _Maeldune_ till
he could no longer distinguish her among the other small craft in the
harbor.

When the ferry-boat reached St. Mawes and discharged her other
passengers Peter remained in her, and on the return journey sat in the
bows straining his eyes to pick out the _Maeldune_ among the other
fishing-boats. Falmouth Harbor is two and a half miles wide, and the
ferryman refused to be hurried; but at last the quay came in sight, and
Peter's heart leaped, for the _Maeldune_ was lying at the steps, and
the girl was still on board of her. As soon as the ferry-boat reached
the steps Peter jumped ashore and faced the girl. Then he hesitated,
embarrassed. He had nothing to say to her, or, rather, no excuse for
speaking to her. “I--I--I saw you--as you came up the harbor,” he
faltered.

But the girl showed no sign of embarrassment. She smiled at him again,
and her smile was brighter than sunlight shining through the curl of a
breaking wave.

“I'm just going out for a sail again,” she said, “and I've room for a
passenger. Old John has just gone to have a yarn with the sailmaker.
Would you care to come?”

Peter jumped onto the _Maeldune's_ thwart, and the girl cast off and
hoisted the sail. “I'm afraid I don't know anything about sailing,”
said Peter.

The girl laughed, and her laugh sounded like the ripple of a stream
that runs over a pebbly beach.

“That doesn't matter,” she said; “I can manage the old _Maeldune_
single-handed.”

They beat down the harbor, rounded the Loze, and stood out in the
direction of mid-channel. Peter was entirely happy. The wind was
blowing fresh from the southwest, and the _Maeldune_ danced lightly
over the waves like a thing alive, her thwarts aslant and her lee-rail
just clear of the water.

“This is glorious,” said Peter. “Do you know, this is the first time I
have ever been on the sea.”

“It won't be the last,” said the girl.

For a long while neither spoke again. Peter did not want to talk. He
was content to watch the Sea Maid as she sat at the tiller, looking
toward the horizon with dreamy eyes and crooning to herself a wordless
song that sounded like the surge of breakers on a distant reef.

“What song is that?” he asked after a long silence.

“That is the song that Orpheus sang to the _Argo_ when she lay on the
stocks and all the strength of the heroes could not launch her. Then
Orpheus struck his lyre and sang of the open sea and all the wonders
that are beyond the farthest horizon, till the _Argo_ so yearned to be
afloat with a fair wind behind her that she spread her sails of her own
accord and glided down the beach into the water.”

“I hadn't heard about it,” said Peter. The story was so fantastically
impossible that he supposed that the girl was chaffing him.

“You are young, surely, to handle a boat by yourself,” he said. “Don't
think me rude. How old are you?”

“As old as the sea, and a little older than the hills.”

Now Peter was sure that the girl was chaffing him.

Neither spoke again. Occasionally the girl looked at him and smiled,
and her smile was the most beautiful thing that Peter had ever known.
Toward evening they turned and sailed back, right in the golden path of
the sinking sun. Slowly the old town of Falmouth took shape; the houses
became distinct, then the people on the quay. Peter sighed because he
was coming back to the shore again, and because for the first time in
his life he had tasted absolute happiness.

Close to the quay the girl threw the boat up in the wind, ran forward
and lowered the head-sails, and then ran back to the tiller. The
_Maeldune_ came gently up to the landing-stage. Peter jumped ashore and
turned, expecting that the girl would follow, but she pushed off and
began to hoist the head-sails again.

“May I--may I see you again?” said Peter, as the gap widened between
the boat and the shore.

The Sea Maid laughed.

“If you come to Hi-Brasil,” she said.

Peter walked slowly in the direction of Fore Street, then realized
that he needed some more definite address if he were to see the girl
again. He hurried back to the landing-stage and looked eagerly for the
_Maeldune_. She was nowhere in sight.

“Did you see a little sailing-boat leave the steps about five minutes
ago?” he asked a man who was lounging on the quay. “Which way did she
go?”

“What rig?”

“I don't know what you call it--one big mast and one little one.”

“A yawl. There's been no yawls in here this afternoon.”

Peter inwardly cursed the man's stupidity and walked dejectedly
away. He dreamed of the Sea Maid that night, and in the morning told
himself that he was a fool. He had had an hour or so of happiness with
a jolly girl who evidently did not wish to continue the acquaintance.
Obviously, the sensible thing to do was to forget all about her. But
he could not forget. Work became impossible. When he tried to write
the laughing face of the Sea Maid danced before his eyes, and when
clients talked to him he could not listen, for the song she had sung
rang in his ears. He went back to Falmouth determined to see her again,
and not till he reached the Cornish port did he realize the futility
of his search. How was he to make inquiries as to the whereabouts of
two people of whom he knew nothing more definite than that the man was
white-haired and bronzed, and that the girl, when last seen, had worn a
white jersey and a blue-serge skirt?

                   *       *       *       *       *

A month later he was an unwilling guest at a reception given by a
famous London hostess. The rooms were packed with a well-dressed crowd
who walked about rather aimlessly, talking on the stairs or listening
to music in one or other of the reception-rooms. Suddenly Peter's heart
stood still for a moment. Clear above the chatter he heard the Sea
Girl's voice. He was standing at the head of the stairs and she was
singing in one of the adjoining rooms,

        I've never sailed the Amazon,
        I've never reached Brazil;
        But the _Don_ and _Magdalena_,
        They can go there when they will!

        Yes, weekly from Southampton,
        Great steamers, white and gold,
        Go rolling down to Rio
        (Roll down--roll down to Rio!),
        And I'd like to roll to Rio
        Some day before I'm old!

The doorway into the room from which he could hear the Sea Maid's voice
was so crowded with people that it was some minutes before Peter could
edge his way into the room. By that time the song was over and the
singer had gone. Peter made inquiries from a man standing near, and
was told that she had left the room by another door. He sought out
his hostess and asked her to introduce him to the lady who had sung
“Rolling down to Rio.” But his hostess could not help him. She admitted
reluctantly that she knew no more of the singer than that she was a
professional entertainer engaged through the medium of a concert agent
and that she had probably already left the house. Peter followed up the
clue. Next morning, after inquiry from the agent, he rang the bell of
a tiny flat in Maida Vale and stood with beating heart waiting for the
door to open.

Five minutes later he was out in the street again, bitterly
disappointed. The lady he had seen was able to prove indisputably that
it was she who had sung “Rolling down to Rio,” but she bore not the
slightest resemblance to the Sea Maiden. To cover his confusion and
excuse his visit, Peter had engaged her to sing at a charity concert
that he had invented on the spur of the moment, had insisted on paying
her fee in advance, and had left the flat, promising to send details of
the place and date of the engagement by post.

                   *       *       *       *       *

That evening, brooding in his lonely chambers, Peter, who till
then had prided himself on believing nothing that is not based on
the fundamental fact that two and two make four, became obsessed
by the idea that the Sea Maid had sent him a spirit-message, using
the unconscious professional entertainer as her medium. He tried
to shake off the idea, telling himself that it was fantastic and
ridiculous, but gradually it overmastered him. At eleven o'clock he
rose from his chair, picked up the _Times_, and consulted the shipping
advertisements. Five minutes later he rang for his man servant.

“Buck up and pack, Higgins,” he said. “I'm off to Brazil. You haven't
too much time. Boat-train leaves Waterloo at midday to-morrow.”

“To Brazil, sir? Isn't that one of those foreign places?”

“Yes. Why? What are you staring at? Why shouldn't I go to Brazil?”

“Shall you want me, sir?”

“You can come if you like.”

“If it's all the same to you, sir, I'd rather----”

“Man alive! I thought you'd have jumped at the chance. Don't you want
to go rolling down to Rio? Can't you feel the magic of it--even in the
mere words? Wouldn't you like to see the armadillo dilloing in his
armor----?”

“I'd better get on with the packing, sir.”

Higgins was convinced that his master had suddenly “gone balmy.”

Before sunset next evening Peter again saw the Sea Maid.

The _R. M. S. Maranhão_, outward bound for Rio de Janeiro, had just
left St. Alban's Head abeam when she passed a full-rigged ship bound
down-channel so closely that Peter could see the men on board of her.
Her tug had just left her and she was setting all sails. One by one the
sails fluttered free and swelled to the soft breeze. Men were lying out
on the upper topsail-yards casting loose the gaskets, and others on
deck were running up the royals to the tune of a chantey,

        Sing a song of Ranzo, boys,
        Ranzo, boys, Ranzo.

A crisp wave curled from her bows, a long wake of gleaming foam
streamed astern of her, and she curtsied gracefully on the swell as if
gravely saluting the larger, newer vessel. The _Maranhão_ passed under
her stern, and as she passed Peter, looking down on her poop, saw the
Sea Maid. And the Sea Maid saw him and waved her hand as the great
mail-steamer surged past.

“D'you know that vessel?” asked Peter eagerly of a ship's officer who
was standing near him.

“She's the _Sea Sprite_. Cleared from Southampton early this morning.
Bound for Rio in ballast for hides.”

“Bound for Rio? Splendid!” said Peter. “How long will it take her to
get there? I know some one on board.”

“A month--more or less. Who's your pal?”

“That girl that waved her hand to me.”

The ship's officer focused his binoculars on the _Sea Sprite_.

“There's no girl on her deck. Girls very seldom travel on wind-jammers
nowadays. Look for yourself.”

Peter took the glasses, and again saw the Sea Maid quite
distinctly--but he did not care to argue about it.

While waiting at Rio de Janeiro Peter took care to make friends with
the port authorities, and arranged with them to let him have the first
news that they had of the _Sea Sprite_.

At last one morning found him in the customs launch, steaming out to
the roadstead where the _Sea Sprite_, her anchor down, was stowing
her canvas. As soon as the quarantine doctor gave permission Peter
scrambled up the ship's side and looked eagerly round her deck. The Sea
Maid was not there. He could hardly contain himself until he could find
an opportunity to ask for her.

“I passed you in the Channel, Captain,” he said, “and I saw a lady
on your deck who is an old friend of mine. May I speak to her?” The
captain shook his head.

“Must have been some other ship,” he said. “We've got no ladies aboard.”

Peter's heart sank.

“I suppose you dropped her at some port on the way.”

“We haven't smelled harbor mud since we left Southampton Water,” said
the skipper. “You're making a mistake, mister. Why, you look as if you
thought I was lying. Take a look at the ship's articles, then, if you
don't believe me. Stands to reason, doesn't it, that if I had a woman
aboard her name would be on the articles?”

Peter returned to the shore, bitterly disappointed and hardly
convinced that he had been mistaken. He booked a passage on the next
homeward-bound steamer. On the homeward voyage he fell in love with an
old lady, one of those women whose personality is so magnetic that they
can draw the innermost secrets out of a young man's heart. One evening,
when the sea was ablaze with splendor under the moon, he told her of
the Sea Maid, and found it eased his longing to talk of her. The old
lady understood.

“You'll see your Sea Maid again,” she said. “I'm sure of it. But
perhaps not in this life.”

But Peter refused to give up hope of seeing the Sea Maid in the flesh.
When he got back to London he sought an interview with one of the most
eminent members of the Royal Geographical Society.

“I want you to tell me where Hi-Brasil is,” he said. “I want to go
there.”

“Then you'll have to wait till you die,” said the geographer with a
laugh.

“What do you mean?”

                   *       *       *       *       *

“Hi-Brasil is a purely mythical island, like St. Brendan's, The
Fortunate Islands, Avalon, and Lyonnesse, that ancient and medieval
geographers supposed to be somewhere out in the Atlantic. They've
served their purpose. If nobody had ever believed in them it is
probable that America would not have been discovered yet. The myth of
Hi-Brasil's existence took a long time to die. Venetian geographers
of the Middle Ages supposed it to be somewhere near the Azores, and
until 1830 Purdy's chart of the Atlantic marked 'Brasil Rock (High)'
in latitude fifty-one degrees ten minutes north, and longitude fifteen
degrees fifty minutes west--that is, about two hundred miles westward
of the Irish coast.”

“But isn't it possible that there really is such an island?” persisted
Peter. “The sea is a big place, you know.”

“Absolutely impossible,” said the geographer. “Why, the spot indicated
by Purdy is right in the track of steamers going from England to
Newfoundland. If you want to read about Hi-Brasil you must read old
books, published before geography was an exact science.”

Though he knew it was useless Peter followed the advice given him and
eagerly read every book he could find that had any bearing on the
subject--Rubruquis, Hakluyt, Linschoten, and many others--and to his
delight he found that his reading brought him nearer to his Sea Maiden.
After an evening spent in imagination exploring the coast of Vinland
with Leif Ericsson, or rounding North Cape with Othere, or groping
blindly in the unknown Atlantic with Malacello, he almost invariably
dreamed that he and the Sea Maiden were once more sailing together in
the little _Maeldune_.

It was after reading, first in Longfellow and afterward in Hakluyt,
about Othere's voyage to the Northern Seas, that Peter saw an
advertisement of a holiday cruise through the Norwegian fiords to
Spitzbergen. He booked a passage, saw the bleak, storm-harried point
that Othere was the first to round, and, on his way home, saw the Sea
Girl again. Just south of the Dogger Bank the tourist-steamer passed
a disreputable-looking tramp steamer. Half of her plates were painted
a crude red; others were brown with rust; the awning stanchions on
her bridge were twisted and bent; she had a heavy list to starboard,
and she was staggering southward under a heavy deck-cargo of timber.
On the bridge, leaning against the tattered starboard-dodger, the Sea
Maid stood and waved her hand to him. Peter eagerly sought out a ship's
officer.

“Where's that steamer bound for?” he asked.

“Goodness knows!” was the answer. “South Wales, most likely, as she's
carrying pit-props.”

Hope of seeing the Sea Girl in the flesh again returned, and Peter
wasted the next few weeks vainly searching all the South Wales
coal ports. He had given up the search, and was returning to his
much-neglected business when the South Wales-London express stopped for
a moment on the bridge over the Wye near Newport. Peter looked idly
out of the window at the dirty river flowing sluggishly between banks
of greasy mud. Then his heart leaped again. Lying embedded in the mud
far below were the rotting remains of a derelict barge, and on her deck
were some ragged children hauling lustily on a scrap of rope that they
had fastened to one of the barge's bollards and singing what, no doubt,
they supposed to be a chantey. Standing on the barge's rotting deck was
the Sea Maid. This time she not only waved her hand but called to him,
“We are bound for the Spanish Main.” Peter leaned far out of the window
of the railway-carriage.

“Where can I find you?” he shouted.

“In Hi-Brasil,” was the answer, and the train moved on.

Peter was now convinced that the eminent geographer whom he had
consulted as to the whereabouts of Hi-Brasil had not known what he
was talking about. It must, he decided, be some little Cornish fishing
village, too insignificant to be worth the great man's notice.

In pursuit of this idea he went at once to Falmouth and began to
make inquiries, first at the police stations and post-offices, and
afterward among the fishermen. At Falmouth no one could answer his
questions, till at last an old gray-beard told him that he'd heard of
the place and believed it was somewhere farther west. At Penzance and
Newlyn Peter could hear nothing, and he walked westward to Mousehole,
determined that if he heard nothing there he would go on to the Scilly
Islands. At Mousehole people laughed at him. One man to whom he spoke
was so amused that he called out to a group of fishermen standing on
the quay waiting for the tide to float their boats.

“Gen'elman wants to know where Hi-Brasil is.”

“Then he'll have to go farther west,” said one.

“To the Scillies?” asked Peter.

“Aye, and farther than that.”

“A long way farther than that,” said another. “It's an old wives' tale,
mister. Stout ships that sail westward and never come back to port
again have their last moorings at Hi-Brasil, so the saying goes. You
ask Old John there. He's the only man that talks about Hi-Brasil, and
he's daft.”

An old man whose broad back was bent with the weight of many years was
hobbling toward him, and Peter knew that at last he was on the right
track. The old fisherman who was coming down the quay was none other
than the man he had seen sailing in the _Maeldune_ with the Sea Girl.

“Hi-Brasil?” asked Old John. “What d'you want with Hi-Brasil?”

“I want to go there.”

“Then I'm the man to take 'ee. But mark 'ee, mister, I can't bring 'ee
back.”

“Never mind about that,” said Peter. “You take me. I'll pay you well.”

“Time enough to talk about payment when we get there,” said the old
man. “When do 'ee want to start?”

“At once, if possible.”

“If 'ee really want to go us can start at half-flood.”

Peter assured the old man that he was in earnest, and the latter
hobbled away over the cobbles, promising to be back in an hour's time.

                   *       *       *       *       *

“You're never going to sea with Old John, are you, mister?” said one
of the fishermen anxiously. “He was a rare bold seaman in his day, but
his day has passed this many a year. He was old when we were boys. Old
John says he'll last as long as a deep-sea wind-jammer remains afloat.
But he's daft. You oughtn't to listen to him. It's all old wives'
foolishness about Hi-Brasil.”

But Peter would not be dissuaded, and an hour later, when the
pilchard-boats jostled each other between the Mousehole pier-heads, and
spread across Mount's Bay for sea-room, Peter and John, in a crazy old
mackerel-boat, went with them. The setting sun gleamed on the brown
sails of the pilchard fleet, and Peter drew a deep breath of delight.
He knew that he would soon see the Sea Maid again.

At midnight the pilchard fleet was a line of riding lights on the
horizon behind them. When the sun rose the Scillies lay to the north of
them. Passing under the lofty Head of Peninnis, they exchanged hails
with a fisherman of St. Mary's who was hauling his lobster-pots.

“Going far?” asked the fisherman.

“Aye, far enough,” answered John.

“Looks like it's coming on to blow from the east,” said the fisherman.

“Like enough,” answered John, and they passed out of hearing.

By midday a fresh wind was blowing. The mackerel-boat's faded,
much-patched sails tugged at her mast, and she groaned as she leaped
from the tops of the waves.

“Afeard, be 'ee?” asked Old John.

“Not I,” said Peter.

“The harder it blows, the quicker we'll get there,” said John, and not
another word was said.

By night-time it was blowing a gale. A driving, following sea hustled
and banged the boat from wave to wave, and the night fell so dark that
Peter could not see the old man sitting motionless at the tiller,
except when a wave broke in foam and formed a great white background
behind him. Peter felt no fear. He knew with the certainty that admits
of no argument that he was on his way at last to his beloved.

The wind hummed in the boat's rigging with a droning note like that
of the Sea Maid's song. The waves washed along her counter, flinging
aboard stinging showers of spray that drenched Peter as he sat on the
midship thwart. The jib flapped and tugged at its sheet when her stern
rose on a wave and groaned with the strain as her bow lifted. Each
time she strained streams of water gushed through her crazy seams. At
last a fierce gust of wind drove her nose so deep into the water that
it poured in a cascade over her bows, and then a great, curving comber
broke over them. Peter was washed from his seat and jammed between the
mast and the leech of the mainsail as the water rose over his head.

                   *       *       *       *       *

When Peter recovered consciousness the sun was shining, the air was
warm, the sea still, and the mackerel-boat, with Old John still at the
tiller, was entering the mouth of a great land-locked harbor. Cliffs,
gay with heather and golden gorse, sheltered it from the wind. The
lazy, offshore breeze was fragrant with the smell of thyme. Shoals of
fish played in the clear water, and on the far side a stream of fresh
water rippled over golden sand.

Peter rubbed his eyes and looked around him with amazement. The harbor
was thronged with shipping of every size, shape, and rig: yachts and
smacks, schooners and ketches, tramp steamers and ocean-liners, barks
and full-rigged ships, galleys and galleons, cogs and caracks, dromons
and balingers, aphracts and cataphracts.

“See that vessel?” said Old John, as they passed under the stern of a
stoutly built brig. “That's Franklin's ship, the _Terror_--crushed in
the ice, she was, off Beechey Island in the Arctic. And that little
craft alongside of her is the _Revenge_. She sank in the Azores after
fighting fifty-three Spaniards for a day and a night. Away over there
is what they used to call a trireme. Cleared from the Port of Tyre, she
did, when I was young, and foundered off Marazion, just where we left
the pilchard fleet.”

But Peter was not listening. He was eagerly watching a yawl that was
scudding toward them; for the yawl was the _Maeldune_, and under the
arched foot of her mainsail the Sea Maid was smiling a greeting.

                         SUGGESTIVE QUESTIONS

     1. Why did the author make his hero “the dullest man that ever
        audited an account”?

     2. Point out, and explain, all the classical and literary
        allusions.

     3. Why did the author make his story so largely realistic?

     4. What is the effect of the songs?

     5. How does the author make his story clear?

     6. Comment on the author's use of conversation.

     7. In what respects is the story poetic?

     8. What effect does Old John contribute to the story?

     9. What is the effect of the abrupt ending?

    10. What makes the story unusually artistic?



It is not easy to write, even with only a small degree of success,
so happily suggestive a story as _Hi-Brasil_. Such a story is the
product both of experience and of art.

The best that you can do is to think of some longing that has
possessed you, as the longing for the sea possessed the author of
_Hi-Brasil_. Take some prosaic character, not usually moved by
such longings as your own, and show him brought strongly under
the influence of a great desire. Make your story so realistic that it
will seem true, and so symbolic that it will be at once poetic and
capable of conveying a strong idea. Do all in your power to make
your story crystal-clear, strongly outlined, and effective in power.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MODERN ESSAYS AND STORIES ***
Hello!
How are you?
I’m fine, thank you.
Nice to meet you.
What’s your name?
My name is [Name].
Where are you from?
I’m from [Place].
How old are you?
I’m [Age] years old.
Common Courtesies
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Excuse me.
I’m sorry.
It’s okay.
No problem.
Please help me.
Could you repeat that?
I appreciate it.
Have a nice day.
Asking for Information
What time is it?
Where is the bathroom?
How much does this cost?
Can you help me?
Where can I find [Item]?
Do you know where [Place] is?
Can you show me the way?
How does this work?
What is this?
When does it start?
Making Requests
Can I have [Item]?
May I borrow this?
Could you lend me a hand?
Please speak slowly.
Can you explain that?
Could I have the bill, please?
Do you have a menu?
Can I try this on?
Can you wait a moment?
Could I sit here?
Common Responses
Yes.
No.
Maybe.
I don’t know.
Of course.
That’s right.
That’s wrong.
I think so.
I don’t think so.
I agree.
Daily Activities
I’m going to work.
I’m going to school.
I need to buy groceries.
I’m cooking dinner.
Let’s go out for lunch.
I’m watching TV.
I’m reading a book.
It’s time to sleep.
I’m cleaning the house.
I’m taking a break.
Travel and Directions
Where is the nearest hotel?
How do I get to [Place]?
Is there a bus stop nearby?
What’s the best way to get there?
How far is it from here?
Can I walk there?
Is there parking available?
Do you have a map?
What’s the address?
When does the train leave?
Shopping and Dining
How much is this?
Do you have this in another size?
I’ll take this one.
Can I pay by card?
Is there a discount?
Do you have vegetarian options?
Can I see the wine list?
I’ll have the [Dish].
Could I get some water, please?
What’s your special today?
Expressing Emotions
I’m happy.
I’m sad.
I’m excited.
I’m tired.
I’m angry.
I’m nervous.
I’m scared.
I’m bored.
I’m surprised.
I’m proud.
Technology and Communication
Can you send me an email?
What’s your phone number?
My phone is not working.
I need to charge my phone.
Can you hear me?
Please send me the details.
How do I connect to Wi-Fi?
I can’t access the website.
Can you fix this?
Let’s set up a meeting.
Health and Wellbeing
I’m not feeling well.
I need to see a doctor.
Where is the nearest pharmacy?
Do you have any medicine?
I have a headache.
I’m allergic to [Substance].
I need help.
Can you call an ambulance?
It hurts here.
How long will it take to recover?
Common Situational Phrases
What’s the weather like today?
It’s raining.
It’s sunny.
I’m running late.
I’ll be there in 10 minutes.
Let’s meet at [Place].
I’ll call you later.
I’ll think about it.
Let’s get started.
Don’t worry about it.
Common Questions
What’s happening?
Who is that?
What are you doing?
Why are you late?
When is the meeting?
Where are you going?
How are you feeling?
Can I join you?
Do you understand?
What’s the matter?
Miscellaneous Phrases
I like this.
I don’t like that.
Let me help you.
That’s amazing!
It’s too expensive.
I can’t afford it.
Let’s try again.
I don’t believe it.
That’s interesting.
I’m looking forward to it.

The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Mysterious Island, by Jules Verne

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Mysterious Island

Author: Jules Verne

Posting Date: August 24, 2008 [EBook #1268]
Release Date: April, 1998
Last Updated: October 13, 2016

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND ***




Produced by Anthony Matonak, and Trevor Carlson





“Are we rising again?” “No. On the contrary.” “Are we descending?”
 “Worse than that, captain! we are falling!” “For Heaven’s sake heave out
the ballast!” “There! the last sack is empty!” “Does the balloon rise?”
 “No!” “I hear a noise like the dashing of waves. The sea is below the
car! It cannot be more than 500 feet from us!” “Overboard with every
weight! ... everything!”

Such were the loud and startling words which resounded through the air,
above the vast watery desert of the Pacific, about four o’clock in the
evening of the 23rd of March, 1865.

Few can possibly have forgotten the terrible storm from the northeast,
in the middle of the equinox of that year. The tempest raged without
intermission from the 18th to the 26th of March. Its ravages were
terrible in America, Europe, and Asia, covering a distance of eighteen
hundred miles, and extending obliquely to the equator from the
thirty-fifth north parallel to the fortieth south parallel. Towns were
overthrown, forests uprooted, coasts devastated by the mountains of
water which were precipitated on them, vessels cast on the shore, which
the published accounts numbered by hundreds, whole districts leveled
by waterspouts which destroyed everything they passed over, several
thousand people crushed on land or drowned at sea; such were the traces
of its fury, left by this devastating tempest. It surpassed in disasters
those which so frightfully ravaged Havana and Guadalupe, one on the 25th
of October, 1810, the other on the 26th of July, 1825.

But while so many catastrophes were taking place on land and at sea, a
drama not less exciting was being enacted in the agitated air.

In fact, a balloon, as a ball might be carried on the summit of a
waterspout, had been taken into the circling movement of a column of
air and had traversed space at the rate of ninety miles an hour, turning
round and round as if seized by some aerial maelstrom.

Beneath the lower point of the balloon swung a car, containing five
passengers, scarcely visible in the midst of the thick vapor mingled
with spray which hung over the surface of the ocean.

Whence, it may be asked, had come that plaything of the tempest? From
what part of the world did it rise? It surely could not have started
during the storm. But the storm had raged five days already, and the
first symptoms were manifested on the 18th. It cannot be doubted that
the balloon came from a great distance, for it could not have traveled
less than two thousand miles in twenty-four hours.

At any rate the passengers, destitute of all marks for their guidance,
could not have possessed the means of reckoning the route traversed
since their departure. It was a remarkable fact that, although in the
very midst of the furious tempest, they did not suffer from it. They
were thrown about and whirled round and round without feeling the
rotation in the slightest degree, or being sensible that they were
removed from a horizontal position.

Their eyes could not pierce through the thick mist which had gathered
beneath the car. Dark vapor was all around them. Such was the density
of the atmosphere that they could not be certain whether it was day or
night. No reflection of light, no sound from inhabited land, no roaring
of the ocean could have reached them, through the obscurity, while
suspended in those elevated zones. Their rapid descent alone had
informed them of the dangers which they ran from the waves. However,
the balloon, lightened of heavy articles, such as ammunition, arms, and
provisions, had risen into the higher layers of the atmosphere, to a
height of 4,500 feet. The voyagers, after having discovered that the sea
extended beneath them, and thinking the dangers above less dreadful than
those below, did not hesitate to throw overboard even their most useful
articles, while they endeavored to lose no more of that fluid, the life
of their enterprise, which sustained them above the abyss.

The night passed in the midst of alarms which would have been death to
less energetic souls. Again the day appeared and with it the tempest
began to moderate. From the beginning of that day, the 24th of March,
it showed symptoms of abating. At dawn, some of the lighter clouds had
risen into the more lofty regions of the air. In a few hours the wind
had changed from a hurricane to a fresh breeze, that is to say, the rate
of the transit of the atmospheric layers was diminished by half. It
was still what sailors call “a close-reefed topsail breeze,” but the
commotion in the elements had none the less considerably diminished.

Towards eleven o’clock, the lower region of the air was sensibly
clearer. The atmosphere threw off that chilly dampness which is felt
after the passage of a great meteor. The storm did not seem to have gone
farther to the west. It appeared to have exhausted itself. Could it have
passed away in electric sheets, as is sometimes the case with regard to
the typhoons of the Indian Ocean?

But at the same time, it was also evident that the balloon was again
slowly descending with a regular movement. It appeared as if it were,
little by little, collapsing, and that its case was lengthening and
extending, passing from a spherical to an oval form. Towards midday the
balloon was hovering above the sea at a height of only 2,000 feet. It
contained 50,000 cubic feet of gas, and, thanks to its capacity, it
could maintain itself a long time in the air, although it should reach a
great altitude or might be thrown into a horizontal position.

Perceiving their danger, the passengers cast away the last articles
which still weighed down the car, the few provisions they had kept,
everything, even to their pocket-knives, and one of them, having hoisted
himself on to the circles which united the cords of the net, tried to
secure more firmly the lower point of the balloon.

It was, however, evident to the voyagers that the gas was failing, and
that the balloon could no longer be sustained in the higher regions.
They must infallibly perish!

There was not a continent, nor even an island, visible beneath them.
The watery expanse did not present a single speck of land, not a solid
surface upon which their anchor could hold.

It was the open sea, whose waves were still dashing with tremendous
violence! It was the ocean, without any visible limits, even for those
whose gaze, from their commanding position, extended over a radius of
forty miles. The vast liquid plain, lashed without mercy by the storm,
appeared as if covered with herds of furious chargers, whose white and
disheveled crests were streaming in the wind. No land was in sight, not
a solitary ship could be seen. It was necessary at any cost to arrest
their downward course, and to prevent the balloon from being engulfed in
the waves. The voyagers directed all their energies to this urgent work.
But, notwithstanding their efforts, the balloon still fell, and at the
same time shifted with the greatest rapidity, following the direction of
the wind, that is to say, from the northeast to the southwest.

Frightful indeed was the situation of these unfortunate men. They were
evidently no longer masters of the machine. All their attempts were
useless. The case of the balloon collapsed more and more. The gas
escaped without any possibility of retaining it. Their descent was
visibly accelerated, and soon after midday the car hung within 600 feet
of the ocean.

It was impossible to prevent the escape of gas, which rushed through a
large rent in the silk. By lightening the car of all the articles which
it contained, the passengers had been able to prolong their suspension
in the air for a few hours. But the inevitable catastrophe could only
be retarded, and if land did not appear before night, voyagers, car, and
balloon must to a certainty vanish beneath the waves.

They now resorted to the only remaining expedient. They were truly
dauntless men, who knew how to look death in the face. Not a single
murmur escaped from their lips. They were determined to struggle to the
last minute, to do anything to retard their fall. The car was only a
sort of willow basket, unable to float, and there was not the slightest
possibility of maintaining it on the surface of the sea.

Two more hours passed and the balloon was scarcely 400 feet above the
water.

At that moment a loud voice, the voice of a man whose heart was
inaccessible to fear, was heard. To this voice responded others not
less determined. “Is everything thrown out?” “No, here are still 2,000
dollars in gold.” A heavy bag immediately plunged into the sea. “Does
the balloon rise?” “A little, but it will not be long before it falls
again.” “What still remains to be thrown out?” “Nothing.” “Yes! the
car!” “Let us catch hold of the net, and into the sea with the car.”

This was, in fact, the last and only mode of lightening the balloon.
The ropes which held the car were cut, and the balloon, after its fall,
mounted 2,000 feet. The five voyagers had hoisted themselves into the
net, and clung to the meshes, gazing at the abyss.

The delicate sensibility of balloons is well known. It is sufficient to
throw out the lightest article to produce a difference in its vertical
position. The apparatus in the air is like a balance of mathematical
precision. It can be thus easily understood that when it is lightened of
any considerable weight its movement will be impetuous and sudden. So
it happened on this occasion. But after being suspended for an instant
aloft, the balloon began to redescend, the gas escaping by the rent
which it was impossible to repair.

The men had done all that men could do. No human efforts could save them
now.

They must trust to the mercy of Him who rules the elements.

At four o’clock the balloon was only 500 feet above the surface of the
water.

A loud barking was heard. A dog accompanied the voyagers, and was held
pressed close to his master in the meshes of the net.

“Top has seen something,” cried one of the men. Then immediately a loud
voice shouted,--

“Land! land!” The balloon, which the wind still drove towards the
southwest, had since daybreak gone a considerable distance, which might
be reckoned by hundreds of miles, and a tolerably high land had, in
fact, appeared in that direction. But this land was still thirty miles
off. It would not take less than an hour to get to it, and then there
was the chance of falling to leeward.

An hour! Might not the balloon before that be emptied of all the fluid
it yet retained?

Such was the terrible question! The voyagers could distinctly see that
solid spot which they must reach at any cost. They were ignorant of what
it was, whether an island or a continent, for they did not know to what
part of the world the hurricane had driven them. But they must reach
this land, whether inhabited or desolate, whether hospitable or not.

It was evident that the balloon could no longer support itself! Several
times already had the crests of the enormous billows licked the bottom
of the net, making it still heavier, and the balloon only half rose,
like a bird with a wounded wing. Half an hour later the land was not
more than a mile off, but the balloon, exhausted, flabby, hanging in
great folds, had gas in its upper part alone. The voyagers, clinging to
the net, were still too heavy for it, and soon, half plunged into the
sea, they were beaten by the furious waves. The balloon-case bulged out
again, and the wind, taking it, drove it along like a vessel. Might it
not possibly thus reach the land?

But, when only two fathoms off, terrible cries resounded from four pairs
of lungs at once. The balloon, which had appeared as if it would never
again rise, suddenly made an unexpected bound, after having been struck
by a tremendous sea. As if it had been at that instant relieved of a new
part of its weight, it mounted to a height of 1,500 feet, and here it
met a current of wind, which instead of taking it directly to the coast,
carried it in a nearly parallel direction.

At last, two minutes later, it reproached obliquely, and finally fell on
a sandy beach, out of the reach of the waves.

The voyagers, aiding each other, managed to disengage themselves from
the meshes of the net. The balloon, relieved of their weight, was taken
by the wind, and like a wounded bird which revives for an instant,
disappeared into space.

But the car had contained five passengers, with a dog, and the balloon
only left four on the shore.

The missing person had evidently been swept off by the sea, which had
just struck the net, and it was owing to this circumstance that the
lightened balloon rose the last time, and then soon after reached the
land. Scarcely had the four castaways set foot on firm ground, than they
all, thinking of the absent one, simultaneously exclaimed, “Perhaps he
will try to swim to land! Let us save him! let us save him!”



Chapter 2

Those whom the hurricane had just thrown on this coast were neither
aeronauts by profession nor amateurs. They were prisoners of war whose
boldness had induced them to escape in this extraordinary manner.

A hundred times they had almost perished! A hundred times had they
almost fallen from their torn balloon into the depths of the ocean. But
Heaven had reserved them for a strange destiny, and after having, on the
20th of March, escaped from Richmond, besieged by the troops of General
Ulysses Grant, they found themselves seven thousand miles from the
capital of Virginia, which was the principal stronghold of the South,
during the terrible War of Secession. Their aerial voyage had lasted
five days.

The curious circumstances which led to the escape of the prisoners were
as follows:

That same year, in the month of February, 1865, in one of the coups
de main by which General Grant attempted, though in vain, to possess
himself of Richmond, several of his officers fell into the power of the
enemy and were detained in the town. One of the most distinguished was
Captain Cyrus Harding. He was a native of Massachusetts, a first-class
engineer, to whom the government had confided, during the war, the
direction of the railways, which were so important at that time. A
true Northerner, thin, bony, lean, about forty-five years of age; his
close-cut hair and his beard, of which he only kept a thick mustache,
were already getting gray. He had one-of those finely-developed heads
which appear made to be struck on a medal, piercing eyes, a serious
mouth, the physiognomy of a clever man of the military school. He was
one of those engineers who began by handling the hammer and pickaxe,
like generals who first act as common soldiers. Besides mental power, he
also possessed great manual dexterity. His muscles exhibited remarkable
proofs of tenacity. A man of action as well as a man of thought, all he
did was without effort to one of his vigorous and sanguine temperament.
Learned, clear-headed, and practical, he fulfilled in all
emergencies those three conditions which united ought to insure human
success--activity of mind and body, impetuous wishes, and powerful will.
He might have taken for his motto that of William of Orange in the 17th
century: “I can undertake and persevere even without hope of success.”
 Cyrus Harding was courage personified. He had been in all the battles of
that war. After having begun as a volunteer at Illinois, under Ulysses
Grant, he fought at Paducah, Belmont, Pittsburg Landing, at the siege of
Corinth, Port Gibson, Black River, Chattanooga, the Wilderness, on the
Potomac, everywhere and valiantly, a soldier worthy of the general who
said, “I never count my dead!” And hundreds of times Captain Harding had
almost been among those who were not counted by the terrible Grant; but
in these combats where he never spared himself, fortune favored him till
the moment when he was wounded and taken prisoner on the field of battle
near Richmond. At the same time and on the same day another important
personage fell into the hands of the Southerners. This was no other than
Gideon Spilett, a reporter for the New York Herald, who had been ordered
to follow the changes of the war in the midst of the Northern armies.

Gideon Spilett was one of that race of indomitable English or American
chroniclers, like Stanley and others, who stop at nothing to obtain
exact information, and transmit it to their journal in the shortest
possible time. The newspapers of the Union, such as the New York Herald,
are genuine powers, and their reporters are men to be reckoned with.
Gideon Spilett ranked among the first of those reporters: a man of great
merit, energetic, prompt and ready for anything, full of ideas, having
traveled over the whole world, soldier and artist, enthusiastic in
council, resolute in action, caring neither for trouble, fatigue, nor
danger, when in pursuit of information, for himself first, and then for
his journal, a perfect treasury of knowledge on all sorts of curious
subjects, of the unpublished, of the unknown, and of the impossible. He
was one of those intrepid observers who write under fire, “reporting”
 among bullets, and to whom every danger is welcome.

He also had been in all the battles, in the first rank, revolver in one
hand, note-book in the other; grape-shot never made his pencil tremble.
He did not fatigue the wires with incessant telegrams, like those who
speak when they have nothing to say, but each of his notes, short,
decisive, and clear, threw light on some important point. Besides, he
was not wanting in humor. It was he who, after the affair of the Black
River, determined at any cost to keep his place at the wicket of the
telegraph office, and after having announced to his journal the result
of the battle, telegraphed for two hours the first chapters of the
Bible. It cost the New York Herald two thousand dollars, but the New
York Herald published the first intelligence.

Gideon Spilett was tall. He was rather more than forty years of age.
Light whiskers bordering on red surrounded his face. His eye was steady,
lively, rapid in its changes. It was the eye of a man accustomed to take
in at a glance all the details of a scene. Well built, he was inured to
all climates, like a bar of steel hardened in cold water.

For ten years Gideon Spilett had been the reporter of the New York
Herald, which he enriched by his letters and drawings, for he was as
skilful in the use of the pencil as of the pen. When he was captured,
he was in the act of making a description and sketch of the battle. The
last words in his note-book were these: “A Southern rifleman has just
taken aim at me, but--” The Southerner notwithstanding missed Gideon
Spilett, who, with his usual fortune, came out of this affair without a
scratch.

Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett, who did not know each other except
by reputation, had both been carried to Richmond. The engineer’s
wounds rapidly healed, and it was during his convalescence that he made
acquaintance with the reporter. The two men then learned to appreciate
each other. Soon their common aim had but one object, that of escaping,
rejoining Grant’s army, and fighting together in the ranks of the
Federals.

The two Americans had from the first determined to seize every chance;
but although they were allowed to wander at liberty in the town,
Richmond was so strictly guarded, that escape appeared impossible. In
the meanwhile Captain Harding was rejoined by a servant who was devoted
to him in life and in death. This intrepid fellow was a Negro born on
the engineer’s estate, of a slave father and mother, but to whom Cyrus,
who was an Abolitionist from conviction and heart, had long since given
his freedom. The once slave, though free, would not leave his master. He
would have died for him. He was a man of about thirty, vigorous, active,
clever, intelligent, gentle, and calm, sometimes naive, always merry,
obliging, and honest. His name was Nebuchadnezzar, but he only answered
to the familiar abbreviation of Neb.

When Neb heard that his master had been made prisoner, he left
Massachusetts without hesitating an instant, arrived before Richmond,
and by dint of stratagem and shrewdness, after having risked his life
twenty times over, managed to penetrate into the besieged town. The
pleasure of Harding on seeing his servant, and the joy of Neb at finding
his master, can scarcely be described.

But though Neb had been able to make his way into Richmond, it was quite
another thing to get out again, for the Northern prisoners were very
strictly watched. Some extraordinary opportunity was needed to make the
attempt with any chance of success, and this opportunity not only did
not present itself, but was very difficult to find.

Meanwhile Grant continued his energetic operations. The victory of
Petersburg had been very dearly bought. His forces, united to those of
Butler, had as yet been unsuccessful before Richmond, and nothing gave
the prisoners any hope of a speedy deliverance.

The reporter, to whom his tedious captivity did not offer a single
incident worthy of note, could stand it no longer. His usually active
mind was occupied with one sole thought--how he might get out of
Richmond at any cost. Several times had he even made the attempt,
but was stopped by some insurmountable obstacle. However, the siege
continued; and if the prisoners were anxious to escape and join Grant’s
army, certain of the besieged were no less anxious to join the Southern
forces. Among them was one Jonathan Forster, a determined Southerner.
The truth was, that if the prisoners of the Secessionists could not
leave the town, neither could the Secessionists themselves while the
Northern army invested it. The Governor of Richmond for a long time had
been unable to communicate with General Lee, and he very much wished to
make known to him the situation of the town, so as to hasten the march
of the army to their relief. Thus Jonathan Forster accordingly conceived
the idea of rising in a balloon, so as to pass over the besieging lines,
and in that way reach the Secessionist camp.

The Governor authorized the attempt. A balloon was manufactured and
placed at the disposal of Forster, who was to be accompanied by five
other persons. They were furnished with arms in case they might have
to defend themselves when they alighted, and provisions in the event of
their aerial voyage being prolonged.

The departure of the balloon was fixed for the 18th of March. It should
be effected during the night, with a northwest wind of moderate force,
and the aeronauts calculated that they would reach General Lee’s camp in
a few hours.

But this northwest wind was not a simple breeze. From the 18th it was
evident that it was changing to a hurricane. The tempest soon became
such that Forster’s departure was deferred, for it was impossible to
risk the balloon and those whom it carried in the midst of the furious
elements.

The balloon, inflated on the great square of Richmond, was ready to
depart on the first abatement of the wind, and, as may be supposed, the
impatience among the besieged to see the storm moderate was very great.

The 18th, the 19th of March passed without any alteration in the
weather. There was even great difficulty in keeping the balloon fastened
to the ground, as the squalls dashed it furiously about.

The night of the 19th passed, but the next morning the storm blew with
redoubled force. The departure of the balloon was impossible.

On that day the engineer, Cyrus Harding, was accosted in one of the
streets of Richmond by a person whom he did not in the least know. This
was a sailor named Pencroft, a man of about thirty-five or forty years
of age, strongly built, very sunburnt, and possessed of a pair of
bright sparkling eyes and a remarkably good physiognomy. Pencroft was an
American from the North, who had sailed all the ocean over, and who had
gone through every possible and almost impossible adventure that a being
with two feet and no wings would encounter. It is needless to say that
he was a bold, dashing fellow, ready to dare anything and was astonished
at nothing. Pencroft at the beginning of the year had gone to Richmond
on business, with a young boy of fifteen from New Jersey, son of a
former captain, an orphan, whom he loved as if he had been his
own child. Not having been able to leave the town before the first
operations of the siege, he found himself shut up, to his great disgust;
but, not accustomed to succumb to difficulties, he resolved to escape by
some means or other. He knew the engineer-officer by reputation; he knew
with what impatience that determined man chafed under his restraint. On
this day he did not, therefore, hesitate to accost him, saying, without
circumlocution, “Have you had enough of Richmond, captain?”

The engineer looked fixedly at the man who spoke, and who added, in a
low voice,--

“Captain Harding, will you try to escape?”

“When?” asked the engineer quickly, and it was evident that this
question was uttered without consideration, for he had not yet examined
the stranger who addressed him. But after having with a penetrating
eye observed the open face of the sailor, he was convinced that he had
before him an honest man.

“Who are you?” he asked briefly.

Pencroft made himself known.

“Well,” replied Harding, “and in what way do you propose to escape?”

“By that lazy balloon which is left there doing nothing, and which looks
to me as if it was waiting on purpose for us--”

There was no necessity for the sailor to finish his sentence. The
engineer understood him at once. He seized Pencroft by the arm, and
dragged him to his house. There the sailor developed his project, which
was indeed extremely simple. They risked nothing but their lives in its
execution. The hurricane was in all its violence, it is true, but so
clever and daring an engineer as Cyrus Harding knew perfectly well how
to manage a balloon. Had he himself been as well acquainted with the art
of sailing in the air as he was with the navigation of a ship, Pencroft
would not have hesitated to set out, of course taking his young friend
Herbert with him; for, accustomed to brave the fiercest tempests of the
ocean, he was not to be hindered on account of the hurricane.

Captain Harding had listened to the sailor without saying a word,
but his eyes shone with satisfaction. Here was the long-sought-for
opportunity--he was not a man to let it pass. The plan was feasible,
though, it must be confessed, dangerous in the extreme. In the night,
in spite of their guards, they might approach the balloon, slip into the
car, and then cut the cords which held it. There was no doubt that they
might be killed, but on the other hand they might succeed, and without
this storm!--Without this storm the balloon would have started already
and the looked-for opportunity would not have then presented itself.

“I am not alone!” said Harding at last.

“How many people do you wish to bring with you?” asked the sailor.

“Two; my friend Spilett, and my servant Neb.”

“That will be three,” replied Pencroft; “and with Herbert and me five.
But the balloon will hold six--”

“That will be enough, we will go,” answered Harding in a firm voice.

This “we” included Spilett, for the reporter, as his friend well knew,
was not a man to draw back, and when the project was communicated to him
he approved of it unreservedly. What astonished him was, that so simple
an idea had not occurred to him before. As to Neb, he followed his
master wherever his master wished to go.

“This evening, then,” said Pencroft, “we will all meet out there.”

“This evening, at ten o’clock,” replied Captain Harding; “and Heaven
grant that the storm does not abate before our departure.”

Pencroft took leave of the two friends, and returned to his lodging,
where young Herbert Brown had remained. The courageous boy knew of the
sailor’s plan, and it was not without anxiety that he awaited the result
of the proposal being made to the engineer. Thus five determined
persons were about to abandon themselves to the mercy of the tempestuous
elements!

No! the storm did not abate, and neither Jonathan Forster nor his
companions dreamed of confronting it in that frail car.

It would be a terrible journey. The engineer only feared one thing; it
was that the balloon, held to the ground and dashed about by the
wind, would be torn into shreds. For several hours he roamed round the
nearly-deserted square, surveying the apparatus. Pencroft did the same
on his side, his hands in his pockets, yawning now and then like a man
who did not know how to kill the time, but really dreading, like
his friend, either the escape or destruction of the balloon. Evening
arrived. The night was dark in the extreme. Thick mists passed like
clouds close to the ground. Rain fell mingled with snow, it was very
cold. A mist hung over Richmond. It seemed as if the violent storm had
produced a truce between the besiegers and the besieged, and that the
cannon were silenced by the louder detonations of the storm. The streets
of the town were deserted. It had not even appeared necessary in that
horrible weather to place a guard in the square, in the midst of which
plunged the balloon. Everything favored the departure of the prisoners,
but what might possibly be the termination of the hazardous voyage they
contemplated in the midst of the furious elements?--

“Dirty weather!” exclaimed Pencroft, fixing his hat firmly on his head
with a blow of his fist; “but pshaw, we shall succeed all the same!”

At half-past nine, Harding and his companions glided from different
directions into the square, which the gas-lamps, extinguished by the
wind, had left in total obscurity. Even the enormous balloon, almost
beaten to the ground, could not be seen. Independently of the sacks of
ballast, to which the cords of the net were fastened, the car was
held by a strong cable passed through a ring in the pavement. The five
prisoners met by the car. They had not been perceived, and such was the
darkness that they could not even see each other.

Without speaking a word, Harding, Spilett, Neb, and Herbert took their
places in the car, while Pencroft by the engineer’s order detached
successively the bags of ballast. It was the work of a few minutes only,
and the sailor rejoined his companions.

The balloon was then only held by the cable, and the engineer had
nothing to do but to give the word.

At that moment a dog sprang with a bound into the car. It was Top,
a favorite of the engineer. The faithful creature, having broken his
chain, had followed his master. He, however, fearing that its additional
weight might impede their ascent, wished to send away the animal.

“One more will make but little difference, poor beast!” exclaimed
Pencroft, heaving out two bags of sand, and as he spoke letting go the
cable; the balloon ascending in an oblique direction, disappeared, after
having dashed the car against two chimneys, which it threw down as it
swept by them.

Then, indeed, the full rage of the hurricane was exhibited to the
voyagers. During the night the engineer could not dream of descending,
and when day broke, even a glimpse of the earth below was intercepted by
fog.

Five days had passed when a partial clearing allowed them to see the
wide extending ocean beneath their feet, now lashed into the maddest
fury by the gale.

Our readers will recollect what befell these five daring individuals
who set out on their hazardous expedition in the balloon on the 20th of
March. Five days afterwards four of them were thrown on a desert coast,
seven thousand miles from their country! But one of their number was
missing, the man who was to be their guide, their leading spirit, the
engineer, Captain Harding! The instant they had recovered their feet,
they all hurried to the beach in the hopes of rendering him assistance.



Chapter 3

The engineer, the meshes of the net having given way, had been carried
off by a wave. His dog also had disappeared. The faithful animal
had voluntarily leaped out to help his master. “Forward,” cried the
reporter; and all four, Spilett, Herbert, Pencroft, and Neb, forgetting
their fatigue, began their search. Poor Neb shed bitter tears, giving
way to despair at the thought of having lost the only being he loved on
earth.

Only two minutes had passed from the time when Cyrus Harding disappeared
to the moment when his companions set foot on the ground. They had hopes
therefore of arriving in time to save him. “Let us look for him! let us
look for him!” cried Neb.

“Yes, Neb,” replied Gideon Spilett, “and we will find him too!”

“Living, I trust!”

“Still living!”

“Can he swim?” asked Pencroft.

“Yes,” replied Neb, “and besides, Top is there.”

The sailor, observing the heavy surf on the shore, shook his head.

The engineer had disappeared to the north of the shore, and nearly half
a mile from the place where the castaways had landed. The nearest point
of the beach he could reach was thus fully that distance off.

It was then nearly six o’clock. A thick fog made the night very dark.
The castaways proceeded toward the north of the land on which chance had
thrown them, an unknown region, the geographical situation of which they
could not even guess. They were walking upon a sandy soil, mingled with
stones, which appeared destitute of any sort of vegetation. The ground,
very unequal and rough, was in some places perfectly riddled with holes,
making walking extremely painful. From these holes escaped every minute
great birds of clumsy flight, which flew in all directions. Others, more
active, rose in flocks and passed in clouds over their heads. The sailor
thought he recognized gulls and cormorants, whose shrill cries rose
above the roaring of the sea.

From time to time the castaways stopped and shouted, then listened for
some response from the ocean, for they thought that if the engineer had
landed, and they had been near to the place, they would have heard the
barking of the dog Top, even should Harding himself have been unable to
give any sign of existence. They stopped to listen, but no sound arose
above the roaring of the waves and the dashing of the surf. The little
band then continued their march forward, searching into every hollow of
the shore.

After walking for twenty minutes, the four castaways were suddenly
brought to a standstill by the sight of foaming billows close to
their feet. The solid ground ended here. They found themselves at the
extremity of a sharp point on which the sea broke furiously.

“It is a promontory,” said the sailor; “we must retrace our steps,
holding towards the right, and we shall thus gain the mainland.”

“But if he is there,” said Neb, pointing to the ocean, whose waves shone
of a snowy white in the darkness. “Well, let us call again,” and all
uniting their voices, they gave a vigorous shout, but there came no
reply. They waited for a lull, then began again; still no reply.

The castaways accordingly returned, following the opposite side of the
promontory, over a soil equally sandy and rugged. However, Pencroft
observed that the shore was more equal, that the ground rose, and he
declared that it was joined by a long slope to a hill, whose massive
front he thought that he could see looming indistinctly through the
mist. The birds were less numerous on this part of the shore; the sea
was also less tumultuous, and they observed that the agitation of the
waves was diminished. The noise of the surf was scarcely heard. This
side of the promontory evidently formed a semicircular bay, which the
sharp point sheltered from the breakers of the open sea. But to follow
this direction was to go south, exactly opposite to that part of the
coast where Harding might have landed. After a walk of a mile and a
half, the shore presented no curve which would permit them to return to
the north. This promontory, of which they had turned the point, must
be attached to the mainland. The castaways, although their strength
was nearly exhausted, still marched courageously forward, hoping every
moment to meet with a sudden angle which would set them in the first
direction. What was their disappointment, when, after trudging nearly
two miles, having reached an elevated point composed of slippery rocks,
they found themselves again stopped by the sea.

“We are on an islet,” said Pencroft, “and we have surveyed it from one
extremity to the other.”

The sailor was right; they had been thrown, not on a continent, not
even on an island, but on an islet which was not more than two miles in
length, with even a less breadth.

Was this barren spot the desolate refuge of sea-birds, strewn with
stones and destitute of vegetation, attached to a more important
archipelago? It was impossible to say. When the voyagers from their car
saw the land through the mist, they had not been able to reconnoiter
it sufficiently. However, Pencroft, accustomed with his sailor eyes
to piece through the gloom, was almost certain that he could clearly
distinguish in the west confused masses which indicated an elevated
coast. But they could not in the dark determine whether it was a single
island, or connected with others. They could not leave it either, as the
sea surrounded them; they must therefore put off till the next day their
search for the engineer, from whom, alas! not a single cry had reached
them to show that he was still in existence.

“The silence of our friend proves nothing,” said the reporter. “Perhaps
he has fainted or is wounded, and unable to reply directly, so we will
not despair.”

The reporter then proposed to light a fire on a point of the islet,
which would serve as a signal to the engineer. But they searched in vain
for wood or dry brambles; nothing but sand and stones were to be found.
The grief of Neb and his companions, who were all strongly attached to
the intrepid Harding, can be better pictured than described. It was too
evident that they were powerless to help him. They must wait with what
patience they could for daylight. Either the engineer had been able to
save himself, and had already found a refuge on some point of the coast,
or he was lost for ever! The long and painful hours passed by. The cold
was intense. The castaways suffered cruelly, but they scarcely perceived
it. They did not even think of taking a minute’s rest. Forgetting
everything but their chief, hoping or wishing to hope on, they continued
to walk up and down on this sterile spot, always returning to its
northern point, where they could approach nearest to the scene of the
catastrophe. They listened, they called, and then uniting their voices,
they endeavored to raise even a louder shout than before, which would
be transmitted to a great distance. The wind had now fallen almost to
a calm, and the noise of the sea began also to subside. One of Neb’s
shouts even appeared to produce an echo. Herbert directed Pencroft’s
attention to it, adding, “That proves that there is a coast to the west,
at no great distance.” The sailor nodded; besides, his eyes could not
deceive him. If he had discovered land, however indistinct it might
appear, land was sure to be there. But that distant echo was the only
response produced by Neb’s shouts, while a heavy gloom hung over all the
part east of the island.

Meanwhile, the sky was clearing little by little. Towards midnight the
stars shone out, and if the engineer had been there with his companions
he would have remarked that these stars did not belong to the Northern
Hemisphere. The Polar Star was not visible, the constellations were not
those which they had been accustomed to see in the United States; the
Southern Cross glittered brightly in the sky.

The night passed away. Towards five o’clock in the morning of the 25th
of March, the sky began to lighten; the horizon still remained dark,
but with daybreak a thick mist rose from the sea, so that the eye could
scarcely penetrate beyond twenty feet or so from where they stood. At
length the fog gradually unrolled itself in great heavily moving waves.

It was unfortunate, however, that the castaways could distinguish
nothing around them. While the gaze of the reporter and Neb were cast
upon the ocean, the sailor and Herbert looked eagerly for the coast
in the west. But not a speck of land was visible. “Never mind,” said
Pencroft, “though I do not see the land, I feel it... it is there...
there... as sure as the fact that we are no longer at Richmond.” But the
fog was not long in rising. It was only a fine-weather mist. A hot
sun soon penetrated to the surface of the island. About half-past
six, three-quarters of an hour after sunrise, the mist became more
transparent. It grew thicker above, but cleared away below. Soon the
isle appeared as if it had descended from a cloud, then the sea showed
itself around them, spreading far away towards the east, but bounded on
the west by an abrupt and precipitous coast.

Yes! the land was there. Their safety was at least provisionally
insured. The islet and the coast were separated by a channel about half
a mile in breadth, through which rushed an extremely rapid current.

However, one of the castaways, following the impulse of his heart,
immediately threw himself into the current, without consulting his
companions, without saying a single word. It was Neb. He was in haste
to be on the other side, and to climb towards the north. It had been
impossible to hold him back. Pencroft called him in vain. The reporter
prepared to follow him, but Pencroft stopped him. “Do you want to cross
the channel?” he asked. “Yes,” replied Spilett. “All right!” said the
seaman; “wait a bit; Neb is well able to carry help to his master. If we
venture into the channel, we risk being carried into the open sea by
the current, which is running very strong; but, if I’m not wrong, it is
ebbing. See, the tide is going down over the sand. Let us have patience,
and at low water it is possible we may find a fordable passage.” “You
are right,” replied the reporter, “we will not separate more than we can
help.”

During this time Neb was struggling vigorously against the current. He
was crossing in an oblique direction. His black shoulders could be seen
emerging at each stroke. He was carried down very quickly, but he also
made way towards the shore. It took more than half an hour to cross from
the islet to the land, and he reached the shore several hundred feet
from the place which was opposite to the point from which he had
started.

Landing at the foot of a high wall of granite, he shook himself
vigorously; and then, setting off running, soon disappeared behind
a rocky point, which projected to nearly the height of the northern
extremity of the islet.

Neb’s companions had watched his daring attempt with painful anxiety,
and when he was out of sight, they fixed their attention on the land
where their hope of safety lay, while eating some shell-fish with which
the sand was strewn. It was a wretched repast, but still it was better
than nothing. The opposite coast formed one vast bay, terminating on the
south by a very sharp point, which was destitute of all vegetation,
and was of a very wild aspect. This point abutted on the shore in a
grotesque outline of high granite rocks. Towards the north, on the
contrary, the bay widened, and a more rounded coast appeared, trending
from the southwest to the northeast, and terminating in a slender cape.
The distance between these two extremities, which made the bow of the
bay, was about eight miles. Half a mile from the shore rose the islet,
which somewhat resembled the carcass of a gigantic whale. Its extreme
breadth was not more than a quarter of a mile.

Opposite the islet, the beach consisted first of sand, covered with
black stones, which were now appearing little by little above the
retreating tide. The second level was separated by a perpendicular
granite cliff, terminated at the top by an unequal edge at a height of
at least 300 feet. It continued thus for a length of three miles, ending
suddenly on the right with a precipice which looked as if cut by the
hand of man. On the left, above the promontory, this irregular and
jagged cliff descended by a long slope of conglomerated rocks till it
mingled with the ground of the southern point. On the upper plateau of
the coast not a tree appeared. It was a flat tableland like that above
Cape Town at the Cape of Good Hope, but of reduced proportions; at least
so it appeared seen from the islet. However, verdure was not wanting to
the right beyond the precipice. They could easily distinguish a confused
mass of great trees, which extended beyond the limits of their view.
This verdure relieved the eye, so long wearied by the continued ranges
of granite. Lastly, beyond and above the plateau, in a northwesterly
direction and at a distance of at least seven miles, glittered a white
summit which reflected the sun’s rays. It was that of a lofty mountain,
capped with snow.

The question could not at present be decided whether this land formed
an island, or whether it belonged to a continent. But on beholding
the convulsed masses heaped up on the left, no geologist would have
hesitated to give them a volcanic origin, for they were unquestionably
the work of subterranean convulsions.

Gideon Spilett, Pencroft, and Herbert attentively examined this land, on
which they might perhaps have to live many long years; on which indeed
they might even die, should it be out of the usual track of vessels, as
was likely to be the case.

“Well,” asked Herbert, “what do you say, Pencroft?”

“There is some good and some bad, as in everything,” replied the sailor.
“We shall see. But now the ebb is evidently making. In three hours we
will attempt the passage, and once on the other side, we will try to get
out of this scrape, and I hope may find the captain.” Pencroft was not
wrong in his anticipations. Three hours later at low tide, the greater
part of the sand forming the bed of the channel was uncovered. Between
the islet and the coast there only remained a narrow channel which would
no doubt be easy to cross.

About ten o’clock, Gideon Spilett and his companions stripped themselves
of their clothes, which they placed in bundles on their heads, and
then ventured into the water, which was not more than five feet deep.
Herbert, for whom it was too deep, swam like a fish, and got through
capitally. All three arrived without difficulty on the opposite shore.
Quickly drying themselves in the sun, they put on their clothes, which
they had preserved from contact with the water, and sat down to take
counsel together what to do next.



Chapter 4

All at once the reporter sprang up, and telling the sailor that he would
rejoin them at that same place, he climbed the cliff in the direction
which the Negro Neb had taken a few hours before. Anxiety hastened
his steps, for he longed to obtain news of his friend, and he soon
disappeared round an angle of the cliff. Herbert wished to accompany
him.

“Stop here, my boy,” said the sailor; “we have to prepare an encampment,
and to try and find rather better grub than these shell-fish. Our
friends will want something when they come back. There is work for
everybody.”

“I am ready,” replied Herbert.

“All right,” said the sailor; “that will do. We must set about it
regularly. We are tired, cold, and hungry; therefore we must have
shelter, fire, and food. There is wood in the forest, and eggs in nests;
we have only to find a house.”

“Very well,” returned Herbert, “I will look for a cave among the rocks,
and I shall be sure to discover some hole into which we can creep.”

“All right,” said Pencroft; “go on, my boy.”

They both walked to the foot of the enormous wall over the beach, far
from which the tide had now retreated; but instead of going towards the
north, they went southward. Pencroft had remarked, several hundred feet
from the place at which they landed, a narrow cutting, out of which
he thought a river or stream might issue. Now, on the one hand it was
important to settle themselves in the neighborhood of a good stream
of water, and on the other it was possible that the current had thrown
Cyrus Harding on the shore there.

The cliff, as has been said, rose to a height of three hundred feet, but
the mass was unbroken throughout, and even at its base, scarcely washed
by the sea, it did not offer the smallest fissure which would serve as
a dwelling. It was a perpendicular wall of very hard granite, which even
the waves had not worn away. Towards the summit fluttered myriads of
sea-fowl, and especially those of the web-footed species with long,
flat, pointed beaks--a clamorous tribe, bold in the presence of man,
who probably for the first time thus invaded their domains. Pencroft
recognized the skua and other gulls among them, the voracious little
sea-mew, which in great numbers nestled in the crevices of the granite.
A shot fired among this swarm would have killed a great number, but to
fire a shot a gun was needed, and neither Pencroft nor Herbert had one;
besides this, gulls and sea-mews are scarcely eatable, and even their
eggs have a detestable taste. However, Herbert, who had gone forward
a little more to the left, soon came upon rocks covered with sea-weed,
which, some hours later, would be hidden by the high tide. On these
rocks, in the midst of slippery wrack, abounded bivalve shell-fish, not
to be despised by starving people. Herbert called Pencroft, who ran up
hastily.

“Here are mussels!” cried the sailor; “these will do instead of eggs!”

“They are not mussels,” replied Herbert, who was attentively examining
the molluscs attached to the rocks; “they are lithodomes.”

“Are they good to eat?” asked Pencroft.

“Perfectly so.”

“Then let us eat some lithodomes.”

The sailor could rely upon Herbert; the young boy was well up in natural
history, and always had had quite a passion for the science. His father
had encouraged him in it, by letting him attend the lectures of the best
professors in Boston, who were very fond of the intelligent, industrious
lad. And his turn for natural history was, more than once in the course
of time, of great use, and he was not mistaken in this instance. These
lithodomes were oblong shells, suspended in clusters and adhering
very tightly to the rocks. They belong to that species of molluscous
perforators which excavate holes in the hardest stone; their shell is
rounded at both ends, a feature which is not remarked in the common
mussel.

Pencroft and Herbert made a good meal of the lithodomes, which were
then half opened to the sun. They ate them as oysters, and as they had
a strong peppery taste, they were palatable without condiments of any
sort.

Their hunger was thus appeased for the time, but not their thirst, which
increased after eating these naturally-spiced molluscs. They had then to
find fresh water, and it was not likely that it would be wanting in such
a capriciously uneven region. Pencroft and Herbert, after having taken
the precaution of collecting an ample supply of lithodomes, with which
they filled their pockets and handkerchiefs, regained the foot of the
cliff.

Two hundred paces farther they arrived at the cutting, through which, as
Pencroft had guessed, ran a stream of water, whether fresh or not was to
be ascertained. At this place the wall appeared to have been separated
by some violent subterranean force. At its base was hollowed out a
little creek, the farthest part of which formed a tolerably sharp angle.
The watercourse at that part measured one hundred feet in breadth, and
its two banks on each side were scarcely twenty feet high. The river
became strong almost directly between the two walls of granite, which
began to sink above the mouth; it then suddenly turned and disappeared
beneath a wood of stunted trees half a mile off.

“Here is the water, and yonder is the wood we require!” said Pencroft.
“Well, Herbert, now we only want the house.”

The water of the river was limpid. The sailor ascertained that at this
time--that is to say, at low tide, when the rising floods did not reach
it--it was sweet. This important point established, Herbert looked for
some cavity which would serve them as a retreat, but in vain; everywhere
the wall appeared smooth, plain, and perpendicular.

However, at the mouth of the watercourse and above the reach of the high
tide, the convulsions of nature had formed, not a grotto, but a pile
of enormous rocks, such as are often met with in granite countries and
which bear the name of “Chimneys.”

Pencroft and Herbert penetrated quite far in among the rocks, by sandy
passages in which light was not wanting, for it entered through the
openings which were left between the blocks, of which some were only
sustained by a miracle of equilibrium; but with the light came also
air--a regular corridor-gale--and with the wind the sharp cold from the
exterior. However, the sailor thought that by stopping-up some of
the openings with a mixture of stones and sand, the Chimneys could be
rendered habitable. Their geometrical plan represented the typographical
sign “&,” which signifies “et cetera” abridged, but by isolating the
upper mouth of the sign, through which the south and west winds blew so
strongly, they could succeed in making the lower part of use.

“Here’s our work,” said Pencroft, “and if we ever see Captain Harding
again, he will know how to make something of this labyrinth.”

“We shall see him again, Pencroft,” cried Herbert, “and when he returns
he must find a tolerable dwelling here. It will be so, if we can make a
fireplace in the left passage and keep an opening for the smoke.”

“So we can, my boy,” replied the sailor, “and these Chimneys will serve
our turn. Let us set to work, but first come and get a store of fuel. I
think some branches will be very useful in stopping up these openings,
through which the wind shrieks like so many fiends.”

Herbert and Pencroft left the Chimneys, and, turning the angle, they
began to climb the left bank of the river. The current here was quite
rapid, and drifted down some dead wood. The rising tide--and it could
already be perceived--must drive it back with force to a considerable
distance. The sailor then thought that they could utilize this ebb and
flow for the transport of heavy objects.

After having walked for a quarter of an hour, the sailor and the boy
arrived at the angle which the river made in turning towards the left.
From this point its course was pursued through a forest of magnificent
trees. These trees still retained their verdure, notwithstanding the
advanced season, for they belonged to the family of “coniferae,” which
is spread over all the regions of the globe, from northern climates to
the tropics. The young naturalist recognized especially the “deedara,”
 which are very numerous in the Himalayan zone, and which spread around
them a most agreeable odor. Between these beautiful trees sprang up
clusters of firs, whose opaque open parasol boughs spread wide around.
Among the long grass, Pencroft felt that his feet were crushing dry
branches which crackled like fireworks.

“Well, my boy,” said he to Herbert, “if I don’t know the name of these
trees, at any rate I reckon that we may call them ‘burning wood,’ and
just now that’s the chief thing we want.”

“Let us get a supply,” replied Herbert, who immediately set to work.

The collection was easily made. It was not even necessary to lop the
trees, for enormous quantities of dead wood were lying at their feet;
but if fuel was not wanting, the means of transporting it was not yet
found. The wood, being very dry, would burn rapidly; it was therefore
necessary to carry to the Chimneys a considerable quantity, and the
loads of two men would not be sufficient. Herbert remarked this.

“Well, my boy,” replied the sailor, “there must be some way of carrying
this wood; there is always a way of doing everything. If we had a cart
or a boat, it would be easy enough.”

“But we have the river,” said Herbert.

“Right,” replied Pencroft; “the river will be to us like a road which
carries of itself, and rafts have not been invented for nothing.”

“Only,” observed Herbert, “at this moment our road is going the wrong
way, for the tide is rising!”

“We shall be all right if we wait till it ebbs,” replied the sailor,
“and then we will trust it to carry our fuel to the Chimneys. Let us get
the raft ready.”

The sailor, followed by Herbert, directed his steps towards the river.
They both carried, each in proportion to his strength, a load of wood
bound in fagots. They found on the bank also a great quantity of dead
branches in the midst of grass, among which the foot of man had probably
never before trod. Pencroft began directly to make his raft. In a kind
of little bay, created by a point of the shore which broke the current,
the sailor and the lad placed some good-sized pieces of wood, which
they had fastened together with dry creepers. A raft was thus formed, on
which they stacked all they had collected, sufficient, indeed, to have
loaded at least twenty men. In an hour the work was finished, and the
raft moored to the bank, awaited the turning of the tide.

There were still several hours to be occupied, and with one consent
Pencroft and Herbert resolved to gain the upper plateau, so as to have a
more extended view of the surrounding country.

Exactly two hundred feet behind the angle formed by the river, the wall,
terminated by a fall of rocks, died away in a gentle slope to the edge
of the forest. It was a natural staircase. Herbert and the sailor began
their ascent; thanks to the vigor of their muscles they reached the
summit in a few minutes; and proceeded to the point above the mouth of
the river.

On attaining it, their first look was cast upon the ocean which not long
before they had traversed in such a terrible condition. They observed,
with emotion, all that part to the north of the coast on which the
catastrophe had taken place. It was there that Cyrus Harding had
disappeared. They looked to see if some portion of their balloon, to
which a man might possibly cling, yet existed. Nothing! The sea was but
one vast watery desert. As to the coast, it was solitary also. Neither
the reporter nor Neb could be anywhere seen. But it was possible that at
this time they were both too far away to be perceived.

“Something tells me,” cried Herbert, “that a man as energetic as Captain
Harding would not let himself be drowned like other people. He must have
reached some point of the shore; don’t you think so, Pencroft?”

The sailor shook his head sadly. He little expected ever to see Cyrus
Harding again; but wishing to leave some hope to Herbert: “Doubtless,
doubtless,” said he; “our engineer is a man who would get out of a
scrape to which any one else would yield.”

In the meantime he examined the coast with great attention. Stretched
out below them was the sandy shore, bounded on the right of the river’s
mouth by lines of breakers. The rocks which were visible appeared like
amphibious monsters reposing in the surf. Beyond the reef, the sea
sparkled beneath the sun’s rays. To the south a sharp point closed the
horizon, and it could not be seen if the land was prolonged in that
direction, or if it ran southeast and southwest, which would have made
this coast a very long peninsula. At the northern extremity of the bay
the outline of the shore was continued to a great distance in a wider
curve. There the shore was low, flat, without cliffs, and with great
banks of sand, which the tide left uncovered. Pencroft and Herbert then
returned towards the west. Their attention was first arrested by the
snow-topped mountain which rose at a distance of six or seven miles.
From its first declivities to within two miles of the coast were spread
vast masses of wood, relieved by large green patches, caused by the
presence of evergreen trees. Then, from the edge of this forest to the
shore extended a plain, scattered irregularly with groups of trees. Here
and there on the left sparkled through glades the waters of the little
river; they could trace its winding course back towards the spurs of the
mountain, among which it seemed to spring. At the point where the sailor
had left his raft of wood, it began to run between the two high granite
walls; but if on the left bank the wall remained clear and abrupt, on
the right bank, on the contrary, it sank gradually, the massive sides
changed to isolated rocks, the rocks to stones, the stones to shingle
running to the extremity of the point.

“Are we on an island?” murmured the sailor.

“At any rate, it seems to be big enough,” replied the lad.

“An island, ever so big, is an island all the same!” said Pencroft.

But this important question could not yet be answered. A more perfect
survey had to be made to settle the point. As to the land itself, island
or continent, it appeared fertile, agreeable in its aspect, and varied
in its productions.

“This is satisfactory,” observed Pencroft; “and in our misfortune, we
must thank Providence for it.”

“God be praised!” responded Herbert, whose pious heart was full of
gratitude to the Author of all things.

Pencroft and Herbert examined for some time the country on which
they had been cast; but it was difficult to guess after so hasty an
inspection what the future had in store for them.

They then returned, following the southern crest of the granite
platform, bordered by a long fringe of jagged rocks, of the most
whimsical shapes. Some hundreds of birds lived there nestled in the
holes of the stone; Herbert, jumping over the rocks, startled a whole
flock of these winged creatures.

“Oh!” cried he, “those are not gulls nor sea-mews!”

“What are they then?” asked Pencroft.

“Upon my word, one would say they were pigeons!”

“Just so, but these are wild or rock pigeons. I recognize them by
the double band of black on the wing, by the white tail, and by their
slate-colored plumage. But if the rock-pigeon is good to eat, its eggs
must be excellent, and we will soon see how many they may have left in
their nests!”

“We will not give them time to hatch, unless it is in the shape of an
omelet!” replied Pencroft merrily.

“But what will you make your omelet in?” asked Herbert; “in your hat?”

“Well!” replied the sailor, “I am not quite conjuror enough for that;
we must come down to eggs in the shell, my boy, and I will undertake to
despatch the hardest!”

Pencroft and Herbert attentively examined the cavities in the granite,
and they really found eggs in some of the hollows. A few dozen being
collected, were packed in the sailor’s handkerchief, and as the time
when the tide would be full was approaching, Pencroft and Herbert began
to redescend towards the watercourse. When they arrived there, it was
an hour after midday. The tide had already turned. They must now avail
themselves of the ebb to take the wood to the mouth. Pencroft did not
intend to let the raft go away in the current without guidance, neither
did he mean to embark on it himself to steer it. But a sailor is never
at a loss when there is a question of cables or ropes, and Pencroft
rapidly twisted a cord, a few fathoms long, made of dry creepers. This
vegetable cable was fastened to the after-part of the raft, and the
sailor held it in his hand while Herbert, pushing off the raft with
a long pole, kept it in the current. This succeeded capitally. The
enormous load of wood drifted down the current. The bank was very
equal; there was no fear that the raft would run aground, and before
two o’clock they arrived at the river’s mouth, a few paces from the
Chimneys.



Chapter 5

Pencroft’s first care, after unloading the raft, was to render the cave
habitable by stopping up all the holes which made it draughty. Sand,
stones, twisted branches, wet clay, closed up the galleries open to the
south winds. One narrow and winding opening at the side was kept, to
lead out the smoke and to make the fire draw. The cave was thus divided
into three or four rooms, if such dark dens with which a donkey would
scarcely have been contented deserved the name. But they were dry, and
there was space to stand upright, at least in the principal room, which
occupied the center. The floor was covered with fine sand, and taking
all in all they were well pleased with it for want of a better.

“Perhaps,” said Herbert, while he and Pencroft were working, “our
companions have found a superior place to ours.”

“Very likely,” replied the seaman; “but, as we don’t know, we must work
all the same. Better to have two strings to one’s bow than no string at
all!”

“Oh!” exclaimed Herbert, “how jolly it will be if they were to find
Captain Harding and were to bring him back with them!”

“Yes, indeed!” said Pencroft, “that was a man of the right sort.”

“Was!” exclaimed Herbert, “do you despair of ever seeing him again?”

“God forbid!” replied the sailor. Their work was soon done, and Pencroft
declared himself very well satisfied.

“Now,” said he, “our friends can come back when they like. They will
find a good enough shelter.”

They now had only to make a fireplace and to prepare the supper--an easy
task. Large flat stones were placed on the ground at the opening of the
narrow passage which had been kept. This, if the smoke did not take
the heat out with it, would be enough to maintain an equal temperature
inside. Their wood was stowed away in one of the rooms, and the sailor
laid in the fireplace some logs and brushwood. The seaman was busy with
this, when Herbert asked him if he had any matches.

“Certainly,” replied Pencroft, “and I may say happily, for without
matches or tinder we should be in a fix.”

“Still we might get fire as the savages do,” replied Herbert, “by
rubbing two bits of dry stick one against the other.”

“All right; try, my boy, and let’s see if you can do anything besides
exercising your arms.”

“Well, it’s a very simple proceeding, and much used in the islands of
the Pacific.”

“I don’t deny it,” replied Pencroft, “but the savages must know how to
do it or employ a peculiar wood, for more than once I have tried to
get fire in that way, but I could never manage it. I must say I prefer
matches. By the bye, where are my matches?”

Pencroft searched in his waistcoat for the box, which was always there,
for he was a confirmed smoker. He could not find it; he rummaged the
pockets of his trousers, but, to his horror, he could nowhere discover
the box.

“Here’s a go!” said he, looking at Herbert. “The box must have
fallen out of my pocket and got lost! Surely, Herbert, you must have
something--a tinder-box--anything that can possibly make fire!”

“No, I haven’t, Pencroft.”

The sailor rushed out, followed by the boy. On the sand, among the
rocks, near the river’s bank, they both searched carefully, but in vain.
The box was of copper, and therefore would have been easily seen.

“Pencroft,” asked Herbert, “didn’t you throw it out of the car?”

“I knew better than that,” replied the sailor; “but such a small article
could easily disappear in the tumbling about we have gone through. I
would rather even have lost my pipe! Confound the box! Where can it be?”

“Look here, the tide is going down,” said Herbert; “let’s run to the
place where we landed.”

It was scarcely probable that they would find the box, which the waves
had rolled about among the pebbles, at high tide, but it was as well
to try. Herbert and Pencroft walked rapidly to the point where they had
landed the day before, about two hundred feet from the cave. They hunted
there, among the shingle, in the clefts of the rocks, but found nothing.
If the box had fallen at this place it must have been swept away by the
waves. As the sea went down, they searched every little crevice with
no result. It was a grave loss in their circumstances, and for the
time irreparable. Pencroft could not hide his vexation; he looked very
anxious, but said not a word. Herbert tried to console him by observing,
that if they had found the matches, they would, very likely, have been
wetted by the sea and useless.

“No, my boy,” replied the sailor; “they were in a copper box which shut
very tightly; and now what are we to do?”

“We shall certainly find some way of making a fire,” said Herbert.
“Captain Harding or Mr. Spilett will not be without them.”

“Yes,” replied Pencroft; “but in the meantime we are without fire, and
our companions will find but a sorry repast on their return.”

“But,” said Herbert quickly, “do you think it possible that they have no
tinder or matches?”

“I doubt it,” replied the sailor, shaking his head, “for neither Neb nor
Captain Harding smoke, and I believe that Mr. Spilett would rather keep
his note-book than his match-box.”

Herbert did not reply. The loss of the box was certainly to be
regretted, but the boy was still sure of procuring fire in some way or
other. Pencroft, more experienced, did not think so, although he was not
a man to trouble himself about a small or great grievance. At any rate,
there was only one thing to be done--to await the return of Neb and the
reporter; but they must give up the feast of hard eggs which they had
meant to prepare, and a meal of raw flesh was not an agreeable prospect
either for themselves or for the others.

Before returning to the cave, the sailor and Herbert, in the event of
fire being positively unattainable, collected some more shell-fish, and
then silently retraced their steps to their dwelling.

Pencroft, his eyes fixed on the ground, still looked for his box. He
even climbed up the left bank of the river from its mouth to the angle
where the raft had been moored. He returned to the plateau, went over it
in every direction, searched among the high grass on the border of the
forest, all in vain.

It was five in the evening when he and Herbert re-entered the cave.
It is useless to say that the darkest corners of the passages were
ransacked before they were obliged to give it up in despair. Towards
six o’clock, when the sun was disappearing behind the high lands of the
west, Herbert, who was walking up and down on the strand, signalized the
return of Neb and Spilett.

They were returning alone!... The boy’s heart sank; the sailor had not
been deceived in his forebodings; the engineer, Cyrus Harding, had not
been found!

The reporter, on his arrival, sat down on a rock, without saying
anything. Exhausted with fatigue, dying of hunger, he had not strength
to utter a word.

As to Neb, his red eyes showed how he had cried, and the tears which he
could not restrain told too clearly that he had lost all hope.

The reporter recounted all that they had done in their attempt to
recover Cyrus Harding. He and Neb had surveyed the coast for a distance
of eight miles and consequently much beyond the place where the balloon
had fallen the last time but one, a fall which was followed by the
disappearance of the engineer and the dog Top. The shore was solitary;
not a vestige of a mark. Not even a pebble recently displaced; not a
trace on the sand; not a human footstep on all that part of the beach.
It was clear that that portion of the shore had never been visited by
a human being. The sea was as deserted as the land, and it was there,
a few hundred feet from the coast, that the engineer must have found a
tomb.

As Spilett ended his account, Neb jumped up, exclaiming in a voice which
showed how hope struggled within him, “No! he is not dead! he can’t be
dead! It might happen to any one else, but never to him! He could get
out of anything!” Then his strength forsaking him, “Oh! I can do no
more!” he murmured.

“Neb,” said Herbert, running to him, “we will find him! God will give
him back to us! But in the meantime you are hungry, and you must eat
something.”

So saying, he offered the poor Negro a few handfuls of shell-fish, which
was indeed wretched and insufficient food. Neb had not eaten anything
for several hours, but he refused them. He could not, would not live
without his master.

As to Gideon Spilett, he devoured the shell-fish, then he laid himself
down on the sand, at the foot of a rock. He was very weak, but calm.
Herbert went up to him, and taking his hand, “Sir,” said he, “we
have found a shelter which will be better than lying here. Night is
advancing. Come and rest! To-morrow we will search farther.”

The reporter got up, and guided by the boy went towards the cave. On
the way, Pencroft asked him in the most natural tone, if by chance he
happened to have a match or two.

The reporter stopped, felt in his pockets, but finding nothing said, “I
had some, but I must have thrown them away.”

The seaman then put the same question to Neb and received the same
answer.

“Confound it!” exclaimed the sailor.

The reporter heard him and seizing his arm, “Have you no matches?” he
asked.

“Not one, and no fire in consequence.”

“Ah!” cried Neb, “if my master was here, he would know what to do!”

The four castaways remained motionless, looking uneasily at each other.
Herbert was the first to break the silence by saying, “Mr. Spilett,
you are a smoker and always have matches about you; perhaps you haven’t
looked well, try again, a single match will be enough!”

The reporter hunted again in the pockets of his trousers, waistcoat, and
great-coat, and at last to Pencroft’s great joy, no less to his extreme
surprise, he felt a tiny piece of wood entangled in the lining of his
waistcoat. He seized it with his fingers through the stuff, but he could
not get it out. If this was a match and a single one, it was of great
importance not to rub off the phosphorus.

“Will you let me try?” said the boy, and very cleverly, without breaking
it, he managed to draw out the wretched yet precious little bit of wood
which was of such great importance to these poor men. It was unused.

“Hurrah!” cried Pencroft; “it is as good as having a whole cargo!” He
took the match, and, followed by his companions, entered the cave.

This small piece of wood, of which so many in an inhabited country are
wasted with indifference and are of no value, must here be used with the
greatest caution.

The sailor first made sure that it was quite dry; that done, “We must
have some paper,” said he.

“Here,” replied Spilett, after some hesitation tearing a leaf out of his
note-book.

Pencroft took the piece of paper which the reporter held out to him, and
knelt down before the fireplace. Some handfuls of grass, leaves, and dry
moss were placed under the fagots and disposed in such a way that the
air could easily circulate, and the dry wood would rapidly catch fire.

Pencroft then twisted the piece of paper into the shape of a cone, as
smokers do in a high wind, and poked it in among the moss. Taking a
small, rough stone, he wiped it carefully, and with a beating heart,
holding his breath, he gently rubbed the match. The first attempt did
not produce any effect. Pencroft had not struck hard enough, fearing to
rub off the phosphorus.

“No, I can’t do it,” said he, “my hand trembles, the match has missed
fire; I cannot, I will not!” and rising, he told Herbert to take his
place.

Certainly the boy had never in all his life been so nervous. Prometheus
going to steal the fire from heaven could not have been more anxious. He
did not hesitate, however, but struck the match directly.

A little spluttering was heard and a tiny blue flame sprang up, making
a choking smoke. Herbert quickly turned the match so as to augment the
flame, and then slipped it into the paper cone, which in a few seconds
too caught fire, and then the moss.

A minute later the dry wood crackled and a cheerful flame, assisted
by the vigorous blowing of the sailor, sprang up in the midst of the
darkness.

“At last!” cried Pencroft, getting up; “I was never so nervous before in
all my life!”

The flat stones made a capital fireplace. The smoke went quite easily
out at the narrow passage, the chimney drew, and an agreeable warmth was
not long in being felt.

They must now take great care not to let the fire go out, and always to
keep some embers alight. It only needed care and attention, as they had
plenty of wood and could renew their store at any time.

Pencroft’s first thought was to use the fire by preparing a more
nourishing supper than a dish of shell-fish. Two dozen eggs were
brought by Herbert. The reporter leaning up in a corner, watched these
preparations without saying anything. A threefold thought weighed on his
mind. Was Cyrus still alive? If he was alive, where was he? If he had
survived from his fall, how was it that he had not found some means of
making known his existence? As to Neb, he was roaming about the shore.
He was like a body without a soul.

Pencroft knew fifty ways of cooking eggs, but this time he had no
choice, and was obliged to content himself with roasting them under
the hot cinders. In a few minutes the cooking was done, and the seaman
invited the reporter to take his share of the supper. Such was the
first repast of the castaways on this unknown coast. The hard eggs
were excellent, and as eggs contain everything indispensable to man’s
nourishment, these poor people thought themselves well off, and were
much strengthened by them. Oh! if only one of them had not been missing
at this meal! If the five prisoners who escaped from Richmond had been
all there, under the piled-up rocks, before this clear, crackling fire
on the dry sand, what thanksgiving must they have rendered to Heaven!
But the most ingenious, the most learned, he who was their unquestioned
chief, Cyrus Harding, was, alas! missing, and his body had not even
obtained a burial-place.

Thus passed the 25th of March. Night had come on. Outside could be heard
the howling of the wind and the monotonous sound of the surf breaking
on the shore. The waves rolled the shingle backwards and forwards with a
deafening noise.

The reporter retired into a dark corner after having shortly noted down
the occurrences of the day; the first appearance of this new land, the
loss of their leader, the exploration of the coast, the incident of the
matches, etc.; and then overcome by fatigue, he managed to forget his
sorrows in sleep. Herbert went to sleep directly. As to the sailor, he
passed the night with one eye on the fire, on which he did not
spare fuel. But one of the castaways did not sleep in the cave. The
inconsolable, despairing Neb, notwithstanding all that his companions
could say to induce him to take some rest, wandered all night long on
the shore calling on his master.



Chapter 6

The inventory of the articles possessed by these castaways from the
clouds, thrown upon a coast which appeared to be uninhabited, was soon
made out. They had nothing, save the clothes which they were wearing at
the time of the catastrophe. We must mention, however, a note-book and
a watch which Gideon Spilett had kept, doubtless by inadvertence, not a
weapon, not a tool, not even a pocket-knife; for while in the car they
had thrown out everything to lighten the balloon. The imaginary heroes
of Daniel Defoe or of Wyss, as well as Selkirk and Raynal shipwrecked
on Juan Fernandez and on the archipelago of the Aucklands, were never in
such absolute destitution. Either they had abundant resources from their
stranded vessels, in grain, cattle, tools, ammunition, or else some
things were thrown up on the coast which supplied them with all the
first necessities of life. But here, not any instrument whatever, not a
utensil. From nothing they must supply themselves with everything.

And yet, if Cyrus Harding had been with them, if the engineer could
have brought his practical science, his inventive mind to bear on their
situation, perhaps all hope would not have been lost. Alas! they must
hope no longer again to see Cyrus Harding. The castaways could expect
nothing but from themselves and from that Providence which never
abandons those whose faith is sincere.

But ought they to establish themselves on this part of the coast,
without trying to know to what continent it belonged, if it was
inhabited, or if they were on the shore of a desert island?

It was an important question, and should be solved with the shortest
possible delay. From its answer they would know what measures to take.
However, according to Pencroft’s advice, it appeared best to wait a few
days before commencing an exploration. They must, in fact, prepare some
provisions and procure more strengthening food than eggs and molluscs.
The explorers, before undertaking new fatigues, must first of all
recruit their strength.

The Chimneys offered a retreat sufficient for the present. The fire was
lighted, and it was easy to preserve some embers. There were plenty of
shell-fish and eggs among the rocks and on the beach. It would be easy
to kill a few of the pigeons which were flying by hundreds about the
summit of the plateau, either with sticks or stones. Perhaps the trees
of the neighboring forest would supply them with eatable fruit. Lastly,
the sweet water was there.

It was accordingly settled that for a few days they would remain at the
Chimneys so as to prepare themselves for an expedition, either along
the shore or into the interior of the country. This plan suited Neb
particularly. As obstinate in his ideas as in his presentiments, he
was in no haste to abandon this part of the coast, the scene of the
catastrophe. He did not, he would not believe in the loss of Cyrus
Harding. No, it did not seem to him possible that such a man had ended
in this vulgar fashion, carried away by a wave, drowned in the floods, a
few hundred feet from a shore. As long as the waves had not cast up the
body of the engineer, as long as he, Neb, had not seen with his eyes,
touched with his hands the corpse of his master, he would not believe
in his death! And this idea rooted itself deeper than ever in his
determined heart. An illusion perhaps, but still an illusion to be
respected, and one which the sailor did not wish to destroy. As for him,
he hoped no longer, but there was no use in arguing with Neb. He was
like the dog who will not leave the place where his master is buried,
and his grief was such that most probably he would not survive him.

This same morning, the 26th of March, at daybreak, Neb had set out on
the shore in a northerly direction, and he had returned to the spot
where the sea, no doubt, had closed over the unfortunate Harding.

That day’s breakfast was composed solely of pigeon’s eggs and
lithodomes. Herbert had found some salt deposited by evaporation in the
hollows of the rocks, and this mineral was very welcome.

The repast ended, Pencroft asked the reporter if he wished to accompany
Herbert and himself to the forest, where they were going to try to
hunt. But on consideration, it was thought necessary that someone should
remain to keep in the fire, and to be at hand in the highly improbable
event of Neb requiring aid. The reporter accordingly remained behind.

“To the chase, Herbert,” said the sailor. “We shall find ammunition
on our way, and cut our weapons in the forest.” But at the moment of
starting, Herbert observed, that since they had no tinder, it would
perhaps be prudent to replace it by another substance.

“What?” asked Pencroft.

“Burnt linen,” replied the boy. “That could in case of need serve for
tinder.”

The sailor thought it very sensible advice. Only it had the
inconvenience of necessitating the sacrifice of a piece of handkerchief.
Notwithstanding, the thing was well worth while trying, and a part of
Pencroft’s large checked handkerchief was soon reduced to the state of
a half-burnt rag. This inflammable material was placed in the central
chamber at the bottom of a little cavity in the rock, sheltered from all
wind and damp.

It was nine o’clock in the morning. The weather was threatening and the
breeze blew from the southeast. Herbert and Pencroft turned the angle of
the Chimneys, not without having cast a look at the smoke which, just at
that place, curled round a point of rock: they ascended the left bank of
the river.

Arrived at the forest, Pencroft broke from the first tree two stout
branches which he transformed into clubs, the ends of which Herbert
rubbed smooth on a rock. Oh! what would they not have given for a knife!

The two hunters now advanced among the long grass, following the bank.
From the turning which directed its course to the southwest, the river
narrowed gradually and the channel lay between high banks, over
which the trees formed a double arch. Pencroft, lest they should lose
themselves, resolved to follow the course of the stream, which would
always lead them back to the point from which they started. But the bank
was not without some obstacles: here, the flexible branches of the trees
bent level with the current; there, creepers and thorns which they had
to break down with their sticks. Herbert often glided among the
broken stumps with the agility of a young cat, and disappeared in the
underwood. But Pencroft called him back directly, begging him not to
wander away. Meanwhile, the sailor attentively observed the disposition
and nature of the surrounding country. On the left bank, the ground,
which was flat and marshy, rose imperceptibly towards the interior. It
looked there like a network of liquid threads which doubtless reached
the river by some underground drain. Sometimes a stream ran through the
underwood, which they crossed without difficulty. The opposite shore
appeared to be more uneven, and the valley of which the river occupied
the bottom was more clearly visible. The hill, covered with trees
disposed in terraces, intercepted the view. On the right bank walking
would have been difficult, for the declivities fell suddenly, and the
trees bending over the water were only sustained by the strength of
their roots.

It is needless to add that this forest, as well as the coast already
surveyed, was destitute of any sign of human life. Pencroft only saw
traces of quadrupeds, fresh footprints of animals, of which he could not
recognize the species. In all probability, and such was also Herbert’s
opinion, some had been left by formidable wild beasts which doubtless
would give them some trouble; but nowhere did they observe the mark of
an axe on the trees, nor the ashes of a fire, nor the impression of a
human foot. On this they might probably congratulate themselves, for on
any land in the middle of the Pacific the presence of man was perhaps
more to be feared than desired. Herbert and Pencroft speaking little,
for the difficulties of the way were great, advanced very slowly, and
after walking for an hour they had scarcely gone more than a mile.
As yet the hunt had not been successful. However, some birds sang
and fluttered in the foliage, and appeared very timid, as if man had
inspired them with an instinctive fear. Among others, Herbert described,
in a marshy part of the forest, a bird with a long pointed beak, closely
resembling the king-fisher, but its plumage was not fine, though of a
metallic brilliancy.

“That must be a jacamar,” said Herbert, trying to get nearer.

“This will be a good opportunity to taste jacamar,” replied the sailor,
“if that fellow is in a humor to be roasted!”

Just then, a stone cleverly thrown by the boy, struck the creature on
the wing, but the blow did not disable it, and the jacamar ran off and
disappeared in an instant.

“How clumsy I am!” cried Herbert.

“No, no, my boy!” replied the sailor. “The blow was well aimed; many a
one would have missed it altogether! Come, don’t be vexed with yourself.
We shall catch it another day!”

As the hunters advanced, the trees were found to be more scattered, many
being magnificent, but none bore eatable fruit. Pencroft searched in
vain for some of those precious palm-trees which are employed in so many
ways in domestic life, and which have been found as far as the fortieth
parallel in the Northern Hemisphere, and to the thirty-fifth only in
the Southern Hemisphere. But this forest was only composed of coniferae,
such as deodaras, already recognized by Herbert, and Douglas pine,
similar to those which grow on the northwest coast of America, and
splendid firs, measuring a hundred and fifty feet in height.

At this moment a flock of birds, of a small size and pretty plumage,
with long glancing tails, dispersed themselves among the branches
strewing their feathers, which covered the ground as with fine down.
Herbert picked up a few of these feathers, and after having examined
them,--

“These are couroucous,” said he.

“I should prefer a moor-cock or guinea-fowl,” replied Pencroft, “still,
if they are good to eat--”

“They are good to eat, and also their flesh is very delicate,” replied
Herbert. “Besides, if I don’t mistake, it is easy to approach and kill
them with a stick.”

The sailor and the lad, creeping among the grass, arrived at the foot
of a tree, whose lower branches were covered with little birds. The
couroucous were waiting the passage of insects which served for their
nourishment. Their feathery feet could be seen clasping the slender
twigs which supported them.

The hunters then rose, and using their sticks like scythes, they mowed
down whole rows of these couroucous, who never thought of flying away,
and stupidly allowed themselves to be knocked off. A hundred were
already heaped on the ground, before the others made up their minds to
fly.

“Well,” said Pencroft, “here is game, which is quite within the reach of
hunters like us. We have only to put out our hands and take it!”

The sailor having strung the couroucous like larks on flexible twigs,
they then continued their exploration. The stream here made a bend
towards the south, but this detour was probably not prolonged for the
river must have its source in the mountain, and be supplied by the
melting of the snow which covered the sides of the central cone.

The particular object of their expedition was, as has been said, to
procure the greatest possible quantity of game for the inhabitants of
the Chimneys. It must be acknowledged that as yet this object had not
been attained. So the sailor actively pursued his researches, though he
exclaimed, when some animal which he had not even time to recognize
fled into the long grass, “If only we had had the dog Top!” But Top had
disappeared at the same time as his master, and had probably perished
with him.

Towards three o’clock new flocks of birds were seen through certain
trees, at whose aromatic berries they were pecking, those of the
juniper-tree among others. Suddenly a loud trumpet call resounded
through the forest. This strange and sonorous cry was produced by a game
bird called grouse in the United States. They soon saw several couples,
whose plumage was rich chestnut-brown mottled with dark brown, and tail
of the same color. Herbert recognized the males by the two wing-like
appendages raised on the neck. Pencroft determined to get hold of at
least one of these gallinaceae, which were as large as a fowl, and whose
flesh is better than that of a pullet. But it was difficult, for they
would not allow themselves to be approached. After several fruitless
attempts, which resulted in nothing but scaring the grouse, the sailor
said to the lad,--

“Decidedly, since we can’t kill them on the wing, we must try to take
them with a line.”

“Like a fish?” cried Herbert, much surprised at the proposal.

“Like a fish,” replied the sailor quite seriously. Pencroft had found
among the grass half a dozen grouse nests, each having three or four
eggs. He took great care not to touch these nests, to which their
proprietors would not fail to return. It was around these that he
meant to stretch his lines, not snares, but real fishing-lines. He took
Herbert to some distance from the nests, and there prepared his singular
apparatus with all the care which a disciple of Izaak Walton would
have used. Herbert watched the work with great interest, though rather
doubting its success. The lines were made of fine creepers, fastened
one to the other, of the length of fifteen or twenty feet. Thick, strong
thorns, the points bent back (which were supplied from a dwarf acacia
bush) were fastened to the ends of the creepers, by way of hooks. Large
red worms, which were crawling on the ground, furnished bait.

This done, Pencroft, passing among the grass and concealing himself
skillfully, placed the end of his lines armed with hooks near the grouse
nests; then he returned, took the other ends and hid with Herbert behind
a large tree. There they both waited patiently; though, it must be
said, that Herbert did not reckon much on the success of the inventive
Pencroft.

A whole half-hour passed, but then, as the sailor had surmised, several
couple of grouse returned to their nests. They walked along, pecking the
ground, and not suspecting in any way the presence of the hunters,
who, besides, had taken care to place themselves to leeward of the
gallinaceae.

The lad felt at this moment highly interested. He held his breath, and
Pencroft, his eyes staring, his mouth open, his lips advanced, as if
about to taste a piece of grouse, scarcely breathed.

Meanwhile, the birds walked about the hooks, without taking any notice
of them. Pencroft then gave little tugs which moved the bait as if the
worms had been still alive.

The sailor undoubtedly felt much greater anxiety than does the
fisherman, for he does not see his prey coming through the water. The
jerks attracted the attention of the gallinaceae, and they attacked the
hooks with their beaks. Three voracious grouse swallowed at the same
moment bait and hook. Suddenly with a smart jerk, Pencroft “struck” his
line, and a flapping of wings showed that the birds were taken.

“Hurrah!” he cried, rushing towards the game, of which he made himself
master in an instant.

Herbert clapped his hands. It was the first time that he had ever seen
birds taken with a line, but the sailor modestly confessed that it was
not his first attempt, and that besides he could not claim the merit of
invention.

“And at any rate,” added he, “situated as we are, we must hope to hit
upon many other contrivances.”

The grouse were fastened by their claws, and Pencroft, delighted at not
having to appear before their companions with empty hands, and observing
that the day had begun to decline, judged it best to return to their
dwelling.

The direction was indicated by the river, whose course they had only
to follow, and, towards six o’clock, tired enough with their excursion,
Herbert and Pencroft arrived at the Chimneys.



Chapter 7

Gideon Spilett was standing motionless on the shore, his arms crossed,
gazing over the sea, the horizon of which was lost towards the east in
a thick black cloud which was spreading rapidly towards the zenith.
The wind was already strong, and increased with the decline of day.
The whole sky was of a threatening aspect, and the first symptoms of a
violent storm were clearly visible.

Herbert entered the Chimneys, and Pencroft went towards the reporter.
The latter, deeply absorbed, did not see him approach.

“We are going to have a dirty night, Mr. Spilett!” said the sailor:
“Petrels delight in wind and rain.”

The reporter, turning at the moment, saw Pencroft, and his first words
were,--

“At what distance from the coast would you say the car was, when the
waves carried off our companion?”

The sailor had not expected this question. He reflected an instant and
replied,--

“Two cables lengths at the most.”

“But what is a cable’s length?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“About a hundred and twenty fathoms, or six hundred feet.”

“Then,” said the reporter, “Cyrus Harding must have disappeared twelve
hundred feet at the most from the shore?”

“About that,” replied Pencroft.

“And his dog also?”

“Also.”

“What astonishes me,” rejoined the reporter, “while admitting that our
companion has perished, is that Top has also met his death, and that
neither the body of the dog nor of his master has been cast on the
shore!”

“It is not astonishing, with such a heavy sea,” replied the sailor.
“Besides, it is possible that currents have carried them farther down
the coast.”

“Then, it is your opinion that our friend has perished in the waves?”
 again asked the reporter.

“That is my opinion.”

“My own opinion,” said Gideon Spilett, “with due deference to your
experience, Pencroft, is that in the double fact of the absolute
disappearance of Cyrus and Top, living or dead, there is something
unaccountable and unlikely.”

“I wish I could think like you, Mr. Spilett,” replied Pencroft;
“unhappily, my mind is made up on this point.” Having said this, the
sailor returned to the Chimneys. A good fire crackled on the hearth.
Herbert had just thrown on an armful of dry wood, and the flame cast a
bright light into the darkest parts of the passage.

Pencroft immediately began to prepare the dinner. It appeared best to
introduce something solid into the bill of fare, for all needed to get
up their strength. The strings of couroucous were kept for the next day,
but they plucked a couple of grouse, which were soon spitted on a stick,
and roasting before a blazing fire.

At seven in the evening Neb had not returned. The prolonged absence of
the Negro made Pencroft very uneasy. It was to be feared that he had met
with an accident on this unknown land, or that the unhappy fellow had
been driven to some act of despair. But Herbert drew very different
conclusions from this absence. According to him, Neb’s delay was caused
by some new circumstances which had induced him to prolong his search.
Also, everything new must be to the advantage of Cyrus Harding. Why had
Neb not returned unless hope still detained him? Perhaps he had found
some mark, a footstep, a trace which had put him in the right path.
Perhaps he was at this moment on a certain track. Perhaps even he was
near his master.

Thus the lad reasoned. Thus he spoke. His companions let him talk. The
reporter alone approved with a gesture. But what Pencroft thought most
probable was, that Neb had pushed his researches on the shore farther
than the day before, and that he had not as yet had time to return.

Herbert, however, agitated by vague presentiments, several times
manifested an intention to go to meet Neb. But Pencroft assured him
that that would be a useless course, that in the darkness and deplorable
weather he could not find any traces of Neb, and that it would be much
better to wait. If Neb had not made his appearance by the next day,
Pencroft would not hesitate to join him in his search.

Gideon Spilett approved of the sailor’s opinion that it was best not to
divide, and Herbert was obliged to give up his project; but two large
tears fell from his eyes.

The reporter could not refrain from embracing the generous boy.

Bad weather now set in. A furious gale from the southeast passed over
the coast. The sea roared as it beat over the reef. Heavy rain was
dashed by the storm into particles like dust. Ragged masses of vapor
drove along the beach, on which the tormented shingles sounded as if
poured out in cart-loads, while the sand raised by the wind added as
it were mineral dust to that which was liquid, and rendered the united
attack insupportable. Between the river’s mouth and the end of the
cliff, eddies of wind whirled and gusts from this maelstrom lashed the
water which ran through the narrow valley. The smoke from the fireplace
was also driven back through the opening, filling the passages and
rendering them uninhabitable.

Therefore, as the grouse were cooked, Pencroft let the fire die away,
and only preserved a few embers buried under the ashes.

At eight o’clock Neb had not appeared, but there was no doubt that the
frightful weather alone hindered his return, and that he must have
taken refuge in some cave, to await the end of the storm or at least the
return of day. As to going to meet him, or attempting to find him, it
was impossible.

The game constituted the only dish at supper; the meat was excellent,
and Pencroft and Herbert, whose long excursion had rendered them very
hungry, devoured it with infinite satisfaction.

Their meal concluded, each retired to the corner in which he had rested
the preceding night, and Herbert was not long in going to sleep near the
sailor, who had stretched himself beside the fireplace.

Outside, as the night advanced, the tempest also increased in strength,
until it was equal to that which had carried the prisoners from Richmond
to this land in the Pacific. The tempests which are frequent during the
seasons of the equinox, and which are so prolific in catastrophes, are
above all terrible over this immense ocean, which opposes no obstacle to
their fury. No description can give an idea of the terrific violence of
the gale as it beat upon the unprotected coast.

Happily the pile of rocks which formed the Chimneys was solid. It was
composed of enormous blocks of granite, a few of which, insecurely
balanced, seemed to tremble on their foundations, and Pencroft could
feel rapid quiverings under his head as it rested on the rock. But he
repeated to himself, and rightly, that there was nothing to fear, and
that their retreat would not give way. However he heard the noise of
stones torn from the summit of the plateau by the wind, falling down on
to the beach. A few even rolled on to the upper part of the Chimneys,
or flew off in fragments when they were projected perpendicularly. Twice
the sailor rose and intrenched himself at the opening of the passage, so
as to take a look in safety at the outside. But there was nothing to be
feared from these showers, which were not considerable, and he returned
to his couch before the fireplace, where the embers glowed beneath the
ashes.

Notwithstanding the fury of the hurricane, the uproar of the tempest,
the thunder, and the tumult, Herbert slept profoundly. Sleep at last
took possession of Pencroft, whom a seafaring life had habituated to
anything. Gideon Spilett alone was kept awake by anxiety. He reproached
himself with not having accompanied Neb. It was evident that he had not
abandoned all hope. The presentiments which had troubled Herbert did not
cease to agitate him also. His thoughts were concentrated on Neb. Why
had Neb not returned? He tossed about on his sandy couch, scarcely
giving a thought to the struggle of the elements. Now and then, his
eyes, heavy with fatigue, closed for an instant, but some sudden thought
reopened them almost immediately.

Meanwhile the night advanced, and it was perhaps two hours from morning,
when Pencroft, then sound asleep, was vigorously shaken.

“What’s the matter?” he cried, rousing himself, and collecting his ideas
with the promptitude usual to seamen.

The reporter was leaning over him, and saying,--

“Listen, Pencroft, listen!”

The sailor strained his ears, but could hear no noise beyond those
caused by the storm.

“It is the wind,” said he.

“No,” replied Gideon Spilett, listening again, “I thought I heard--”

“What?”

“The barking of a dog!”

“A dog!” cried Pencroft, springing up.

“Yes--barking--”

“It’s not possible!” replied the sailor. “And besides, how, in the
roaring of the storm--”

“Stop--listen--” said the reporter.

Pencroft listened more attentively, and really thought he heard, during
a lull, distant barking.

“Well!” said the reporter, pressing the sailor’s hand.

“Yes--yes!” replied Pencroft.

“It is Top! It is Top!” cried Herbert, who had just awoke; and all three
rushed towards the opening of the Chimneys. They had great difficulty in
getting out. The wind drove them back. But at last they succeeded, and
could only remain standing by leaning against the rocks. They looked
about, but could not speak. The darkness was intense. The sea, the sky,
the land were all mingled in one black mass. Not a speck of light was
visible.

The reporter and his companions remained thus for a few minutes,
overwhelmed by the wind, drenched by the rain, blinded by the sand.

Then, in a pause of the tumult, they again heard the barking, which they
found must be at some distance.

It could only be Top! But was he alone or accompanied? He was most
probably alone, for, if Neb had been with him, he would have made
his way more directly towards the Chimneys. The sailor squeezed the
reporter’s hand, for he could not make himself heard, in a way which
signified “Wait!” then he reentered the passage.

An instant after he issued with a lighted fagot, which he threw into the
darkness, whistling shrilly.

It appeared as if this signal had been waited for; the barking
immediately came nearer, and soon a dog bounded into the passage.
Pencroft, Herbert, and Spilett entered after him.

An armful of dry wood was thrown on the embers. The passage was lighted
up with a bright flame.

“It is Top!” cried Herbert.

It was indeed Top, a magnificent Anglo-Norman, who derived from these
two races crossed the swiftness of foot and the acuteness of smell which
are the preeminent qualities of coursing dogs. It was the dog of the
engineer, Cyrus Harding. But he was alone! Neither Neb nor his master
accompanied him!

How was it that his instinct had guided him straight to the Chimneys,
which he did not know? It appeared inexplicable, above all, in the
midst of this black night and in such a tempest! But what was still more
inexplicable was, that Top was neither tired, nor exhausted, nor even
soiled with mud or sand!--Herbert had drawn him towards him, and was
patting his head, the dog rubbing his neck against the lad’s hands.

“If the dog is found, the master will be found also!” said the reporter.

“God grant it!” responded Herbert. “Let us set off! Top will guide us!”

Pencroft did not make any objection. He felt that Top’s arrival
contradicted his conjectures. “Come along then!” said he.

Pencroft carefully covered the embers on the hearth. He placed a few
pieces of wood among them, so as to keep in the fire until their return.
Then, preceded by the dog, who seemed to invite them by short barks to
come with him, and followed by the reporter and the boy, he dashed out,
after having put up in his handkerchief the remains of the supper.

The storm was then in all its violence, and perhaps at its height. Not a
single ray of light from the moon pierced through the clouds. To follow
a straight course was difficult. It was best to rely on Top’s instinct.
They did so. The reporter and Herbert walked behind the dog, and the
sailor brought up the rear. It was impossible to exchange a word. The
rain was not very heavy, but the wind was terrific.

However, one circumstance favored the seaman and his two companions. The
wind being southeast, consequently blew on their backs. The clouds of
sand, which otherwise would have been insupportable, from being received
behind, did not in consequence impede their progress. In short, they
sometimes went faster than they liked, and had some difficulty in
keeping their feet; but hope gave them strength, for it was not at
random that they made their way along the shore. They had no doubt that
Neb had found his master, and that he had sent them the faithful dog.
But was the engineer living, or had Neb only sent for his companions
that they might render the last duties to the corpse of the unfortunate
Harding?

After having passed the precipice, Herbert, the reporter, and Pencroft
prudently stepped aside to stop and take breath. The turn of the rocks
sheltered them from the wind, and they could breathe after this walk or
rather run of a quarter of an hour.

They could now hear and reply to each other, and the lad having
pronounced the name of Cyrus Harding, Top gave a few short barks, as
much as to say that his master was saved.

“Saved, isn’t he?” repeated Herbert; “saved, Top?”

And the dog barked in reply.

They once more set out. The tide began to rise, and urged by the wind it
threatened to be unusually high, as it was a spring tide. Great billows
thundered against the reef with such violence that they probably passed
entirely over the islet, then quite invisible. The mole no longer
protected the coast, which was directly exposed to the attacks of the
open sea.

As soon as the sailor and his companions left the precipice, the wind
struck them again with renewed fury. Though bent under the gale they
walked very quickly, following Top, who did not hesitate as to what
direction to take.

They ascended towards the north, having on their left an interminable
extent of billows, which broke with a deafening noise, and on their
right a dark country, the aspect of which it was impossible to guess.
But they felt that it was comparatively flat, for the wind passed
completely over them, without being driven back as it was when it came
in contact with the cliff.

At four o’clock in the morning, they reckoned that they had cleared
about five miles. The clouds were slightly raised, and the wind, though
less damp, was very sharp and cold. Insufficiently protected by their
clothing, Pencroft, Herbert and Spilett suffered cruelly, but not
a complaint escaped their lips. They were determined to follow Top,
wherever the intelligent animal wished to lead them.

Towards five o’clock day began to break. At the zenith, where the fog
was less thick, gray shades bordered the clouds; under an opaque belt, a
luminous line clearly traced the horizon. The crests of the billows were
tipped with a wild light, and the foam regained its whiteness. At the
same time on the left the hilly parts of the coast could be seen, though
very indistinctly.

At six o’clock day had broken. The clouds rapidly lifted. The seaman and
his companions were then about six miles from the Chimneys. They were
following a very flat shore bounded by a reef of rocks, whose heads
scarcely emerged from the sea, for they were in deep water. On the left,
the country appeared to be one vast extent of sandy downs, bristling
with thistles. There was no cliff, and the shore offered no resistance
to the ocean but a chain of irregular hillocks. Here and there grew two
or three trees, inclined towards the west, their branches projecting in
that direction. Quite behind, in the southwest, extended the border of
the forest.

At this moment, Top became very excited. He ran forward, then returned,
and seemed to entreat them to hasten their steps. The dog then left the
beach, and guided by his wonderful instinct, without showing the least
hesitation, went straight in among the downs. They followed him. The
country appeared an absolute desert. Not a living creature was to be
seen.

The downs, the extent of which was large, were composed of hillocks
and even of hills, very irregularly distributed. They resembled a
Switzerland modeled in sand, and only an amazing instinct could have
possibly recognized the way.

Five minutes after having left the beach, the reporter and his two
companions arrived at a sort of excavation, hollowed out at the back of
a high mound. There Top stopped, and gave a loud, clear bark. Spilett,
Herbert, and Pencroft dashed into the cave.

Neb was there, kneeling beside a body extended on a bed of grass.

The body was that of the engineer, Cyrus Harding.

Neb did not move. Pencroft only uttered one word.

“Living?” he cried.

Neb did not reply. Spilett and the sailor turned pale. Herbert clasped
his hands, and remained motionless. The poor Negro, absorbed in his
grief, evidently had neither seen his companions nor heard the sailor
speak.

The reporter knelt down beside the motionless body, and placed his ear
to the engineer’s chest, having first torn open his clothes.

A minute--an age!--passed, during which he endeavored to catch the
faintest throb of the heart.

Neb had raised himself a little and gazed without seeing. Despair had
completely changed his countenance. He could scarcely be recognized,
exhausted with fatigue, broken with grief. He believed his master was
dead.

Gideon Spilett at last rose, after a long and attentive examination.

“He lives!” said he.

Pencroft knelt in his turn beside the engineer, he also heard a
throbbing, and even felt a slight breath on his cheek.

Herbert at a word from the reporter ran out to look for water. He found,
a hundred feet off, a limpid stream, which seemed to have been greatly
increased by the rains, and which filtered through the sand; but nothing
in which to put the water, not even a shell among the downs. The lad was
obliged to content himself with dipping his handkerchief in the stream,
and with it hastened back to the grotto.

Happily the wet handkerchief was enough for Gideon Spilett, who only
wished to wet the engineer’s lips. The cold water produced an almost
immediate effect. His chest heaved and he seemed to try to speak.

“We will save him!” exclaimed the reporter.

At these words hope revived in Neb’s heart. He undressed his master
to see if he was wounded, but not so much as a bruise was to be found,
either on the head, body, or limbs, which was surprising, as he must
have been dashed against the rocks; even the hands were uninjured, and
it was difficult to explain how the engineer showed no traces of the
efforts which he must have made to get out of reach of the breakers.

But the explanation would come later. When Cyrus was able to speak he
would say what had happened. For the present the question was, how to
recall him to life, and it appeared likely that rubbing would bring this
about; so they set to work with the sailor’s jersey.

The engineer, revived by this rude shampooing, moved his arm slightly
and began to breathe more regularly. He was sinking from exhaustion,
and certainly, had not the reporter and his companions arrived, it would
have been all over with Cyrus Harding.

“You thought your master was dead, didn’t you?” said the seaman to Neb.

“Yes! quite dead!” replied Neb, “and if Top had not found you, and
brought you here, I should have buried my master, and then have lain
down on his grave to die!”

It had indeed been a narrow escape for Cyrus Harding!

Neb then recounted what had happened. The day before, after having
left the Chimneys at daybreak, he had ascended the coast in a northerly
direction, and had reached that part of the shore which he had already
visited.

There, without any hope he acknowledged, Neb had searched the beach,
among the rocks, on the sand, for the smallest trace to guide him. He
examined particularly that part of the beach which was not covered by
the high tide, for near the sea the water would have obliterated all
marks. Neb did not expect to find his master living. It was for a corpse
that he searched, a corpse which he wished to bury with his own hands!

He sought long in vain. This desert coast appeared never to have been
visited by a human creature. The shells, those which the sea had not
reached, and which might be met with by millions above high-water mark,
were untouched. Not a shell was broken.

Neb then resolved to walk along the beach for some miles. It was
possible that the waves had carried the body to quite a distant point.
When a corpse floats a little distance from a low shore, it rarely
happens that the tide does not throw it up, sooner or later. This Neb
knew, and he wished to see his master again for the last time.

“I went along the coast for another two miles, carefully examining
the beach, both at high and low water, and I had despaired of finding
anything, when yesterday, above five in the evening, I saw footprints on
the sand.”

“Footprints?” exclaimed Pencroft.

“Yes!” replied Neb.

“Did these footprints begin at the water’s edge?” asked the reporter.

“No,” replied Neb, “only above high-water mark, for the others must have
been washed out by the tide.”

“Go on, Neb,” said Spilett.

“I went half crazy when I saw these footprints. They were very clear
and went towards the downs. I followed them for a quarter of a mile,
running, but taking care not to destroy them. Five minutes after, as
it was getting dark, I heard the barking of a dog. It was Top, and Top
brought me here, to my master!”

Neb ended his account by saying what had been his grief at finding the
inanimate body, in which he vainly sought for the least sign of life.
Now that he had found him dead he longed for him to be alive. All his
efforts were useless! Nothing remained to be done but to render the last
duties to the one whom he had loved so much! Neb then thought of his
companions. They, no doubt, would wish to see the unfortunate man again.
Top was there. Could he not rely on the sagacity of the faithful animal?
Neb several times pronounced the name of the reporter, the one among his
companions whom Top knew best.

Then he pointed to the south, and the dog bounded off in the direction
indicated to him.

We have heard how, guided by an instinct which might be looked upon
almost as supernatural, Top had found them.

Neb’s companions had listened with great attention to this account.

It was unaccountable to them how Cyrus Harding, after the efforts which
he must have made to escape from the waves by crossing the rocks, had
not received even a scratch. And what could not be explained either was
how the engineer had managed to get to this cave in the downs, more than
a mile from the shore.

“So, Neb,” said the reporter, “it was not you who brought your master to
this place.”

“No, it was not I,” replied the Negro.

“It’s very clear that the captain came here by himself,” said Pencroft.

“It is clear in reality,” observed Spilett, “but it is not credible!”

The explanation of this fact could only be produced from the engineer’s
own lips, and they must wait for that till speech returned. Rubbing had
re-established the circulation of the blood. Cyrus Harding moved his arm
again, then his head, and a few incomprehensible words escaped him.

Neb, who was bending over him, spoke, but the engineer did not appear
to hear, and his eyes remained closed. Life was only exhibited in him by
movement, his senses had not as yet been restored.

Pencroft much regretted not having either fire, or the means of
procuring it, for he had, unfortunately, forgotten to bring the burnt
linen, which would easily have ignited from the sparks produced by
striking together two flints. As to the engineer’s pockets, they were
entirely empty, except that of his waistcoat, which contained his watch.
It was necessary to carry Harding to the Chimneys, and that as soon as
possible. This was the opinion of all.

Meanwhile, the care which was lavished on the engineer brought him back
to consciousness sooner than they could have expected. The water with
which they wetted his lips revived him gradually. Pencroft also thought
of mixing with the water some moisture from the titra’s flesh which
he had brought. Herbert ran to the beach and returned with two large
bivalve shells. The sailor concocted something which he introduced
between the lips of the engineer, who eagerly drinking it opened his
eyes.

Neb and the reporter were leaning over him.

“My master! my master!” cried Neb.

The engineer heard him. He recognized Neb and Spilett, then his other
two companions, and his hand slightly pressed theirs.

A few words again escaped him, which showed what thoughts were, even
then, troubling his brain. This time he was understood. Undoubtedly they
were the same words he had before attempted to utter.

“Island or continent?” he murmured.

“Bother the continent,” cried Pencroft hastily; “there is time enough
to see about that, captain! we don’t care for anything, provided you are
living.”

The engineer nodded faintly, and then appeared to sleep.

They respected this sleep, and the reporter began immediately to make
arrangements for transporting Harding to a more comfortable place. Neb,
Herbert, and Pencroft left the cave and directed their steps towards
a high mound crowned with a few distorted trees. On the way the sailor
could not help repeating,--

“Island or continent! To think of that, when at one’s last gasp! What a
man!”

Arrived at the summit of the mound, Pencroft and his two companions
set to work, with no other tools than their hands, to despoil of its
principal branches a rather sickly tree, a sort of marine fir; with
these branches they made a litter, on which, covered with grass and
leaves, they could carry the engineer.

This occupied them nearly forty minutes, and it was ten o’clock when
they returned to Cyrus Harding whom Spilett had not left.

The engineer was just awaking from the sleep, or rather from the
drowsiness, in which they had found him. The color was returning to his
cheeks, which till now had been as pale as death. He raised himself a
little, looked around him, and appeared to ask where he was.

“Can you listen to me without fatigue, Cyrus?” asked the reporter.

“Yes,” replied the engineer.

“It’s my opinion,” said the sailor, “that Captain Harding will be
able to listen to you still better, if he will have some more grouse
jelly,--for we have grouse, captain,” added he, presenting him with a
little of this jelly, to which he this time added some of the flesh.

Cyrus Harding ate a little of the grouse, and the rest was divided
among his companions, who found it but a meager breakfast, for they were
suffering extremely from hunger.

“Well!” said the sailor, “there is plenty of food at the Chimneys, for
you must know, captain, that down there, in the south, we have a house,
with rooms, beds, and fireplace, and in the pantry, several dozen of
birds, which our Herbert calls couroucous. Your litter is ready, and as
soon as you feel strong enough we will carry you home.”

“Thanks, my friend,” replied the engineer; “wait another hour or two,
and then we will set out. And now speak, Spilett.”

The reporter then told him all that had occurred. He recounted all the
events with which Cyrus was unacquainted, the last fall of the balloon,
the landing on this unknown land, which appeared a desert (whatever it
was, whether island or continent), the discovery of the Chimneys,
the search for him, not forgetting of course Neb’s devotion, the
intelligence exhibited by the faithful Top, as well as many other
matters.

“But,” asked Harding, in a still feeble voice, “you did not, then, pick
me up on the beach?”

“No,” replied the reporter.

“And did you not bring me to this cave?”

“No.”

“At what distance is this cave from the sea?”

“About a mile,” replied Pencroft; “and if you are astonished, captain,
we are not less surprised ourselves at seeing you in this place!”

“Indeed,” said the engineer, who was recovering gradually, and who took
great interest in these details, “indeed it is very singular!”

“But,” resumed the sailor, “can you tell us what happened after you were
carried off by the sea?”

Cyrus Harding considered. He knew very little. The wave had torn him
from the balloon net. He sank at first several fathoms. On returning
to the surface, in the half light, he felt a living creature struggling
near him. It was Top, who had sprung to his help. He saw nothing of the
balloon, which, lightened both of his weight and that of the dog, had
darted away like an arrow.

There he was, in the midst of the angry sea, at a distance which could
not be less than half a mile from the shore. He attempted to struggle
against the billows by swimming vigorously. Top held him up by his
clothes; but a strong current seized him and drove him towards the
north, and after half an hour of exertion, he sank, dragging Top
with him into the depths. From that moment to the moment in which he
recovered to find himself in the arms of his friends he remembered
nothing.

“However,” remarked Pencroft, “you must have been thrown on to the
beach, and you must have had strength to walk here, since Neb found your
footmarks!”

“Yes... of course,” replied the engineer, thoughtfully; “and you found
no traces of human beings on this coast?”

“Not a trace,” replied the reporter; “besides, if by chance you had met
with some deliverer there, just in the nick of time, why should he have
abandoned you after having saved you from the waves?”

“You are right, my dear Spilett. Tell me, Neb,” added the engineer,
turning to his servant, “it was not you who... you can’t have had a
moment of unconsciousness... during which no, that’s absurd.... Do any
of the footsteps still remain?” asked Harding.

“Yes, master,” replied Neb; “here, at the entrance, at the back of
the mound, in a place sheltered from the rain and wind. The storm has
destroyed the others.”

“Pencroft,” said Cyrus Harding, “will you take my shoe and see if it
fits exactly to the footprints?”

The sailor did as the engineer requested. While he and Herbert, guided
by Neb, went to the place where the footprints were to be found, Cyrus
remarked to the reporter,--

“It is a most extraordinary thing!”

“Perfectly inexplicable!” replied Gideon Spilett.

“But do not dwell upon it just now, my dear Spilett, we will talk about
it by-and-by.”

A moment after the others entered.

There was no doubt about it. The engineer’s shoe fitted exactly to the
footmarks. It was therefore Cyrus Harding who had left them on the sand.

“Come,” said he, “I must have experienced this unconsciousness which I
attributed to Neb. I must have walked like a somnambulist, without any
knowledge of my steps, and Top must have guided me here, after having
dragged me from the waves... Come, Top! Come, old dog!”

The magnificent animal bounded barking to his master, and caresses were
lavished on him. It was agreed that there was no other way of accounting
for the rescue of Cyrus Harding, and that Top deserved all the honor of
the affair.

Towards twelve o’clock, Pencroft having asked the engineer if they could
now remove him, Harding, instead of replying, and by an effort which
exhibited the most energetic will, got up. But he was obliged to lean on
the sailor, or he would have fallen.

“Well done!” cried Pencroft; “bring the captain’s litter.”

The litter was brought; the transverse branches had been covered with
leaves and long grass. Harding was laid on it, and Pencroft, having
taken his place at one end and Neb at the other, they started towards
the coast. There was a distance of eight miles to be accomplished; but,
as they could not go fast, and it would perhaps be necessary to stop
frequently, they reckoned that it would take at least six hours to reach
the Chimneys. The wind was still strong, but fortunately it did not
rain. Although lying down, the engineer, leaning on his elbow, observed
the coast, particularly inland. He did not speak, but he gazed; and, no
doubt, the appearance of the country, with its inequalities of ground,
its forests, its various productions, were impressed on his mind.
However, after traveling for two hours, fatigue overcame him, and he
slept.

At half-past five the little band arrived at the precipice, and a short
time after at the Chimneys.

They stopped, and the litter was placed on the sand; Cyrus Harding was
sleeping profoundly, and did not awake.

Pencroft, to his extreme surprise, found that the terrible storm had
quite altered the aspect of the place. Important changes had occurred;
great blocks of stone lay on the beach, which was also covered with a
thick carpet of sea-weed, algae, and wrack. Evidently the sea, passing
over the islet, had been carried right up to the foot of the enormous
curtain of granite. The soil in front of the cave had been torn away
by the violence of the waves. A horrid presentiment flashed across
Pencroft’s mind. He rushed into the passage, but returned almost
immediately, and stood motionless, staring at his companions.... The
fire was out; the drowned cinders were nothing but mud; the burnt
linen, which was to have served as tinder, had disappeared! The sea had
penetrated to the end of the passages, and everything was overthrown and
destroyed in the interior of the Chimneys!



Chapter 9

In a few words, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, and Neb were made acquainted
with what had happened. This accident, which appeared so very serious
to Pencroft, produced different effects on the companions of the honest
sailor.

Neb, in his delight at having found his master, did not listen, or
rather, did not care to trouble himself with what Pencroft was saying.

Herbert shared in some degree the sailor’s feelings.

As to the reporter, he simply replied,--

“Upon my word, Pencroft, it’s perfectly indifferent to me!”

“But, I repeat, that we haven’t any fire!”

“Pooh!”

“Nor any means of relighting it!”

“Nonsense!”

“But I say, Mr. Spilett--”

“Isn’t Cyrus here?” replied the reporter.

“Is not our engineer alive? He will soon find some way of making fire
for us!”

“With what?”

“With nothing.”

What had Pencroft to say? He could say nothing, for, in the bottom of
his heart he shared the confidence which his companions had in Cyrus
Harding. The engineer was to them a microcosm, a compound of every
science, a possessor of all human knowledge. It was better to be with
Cyrus in a desert island, than without him in the most flourishing town
in the United States. With him they could want nothing; with him they
would never despair. If these brave men had been told that a volcanic
eruption would destroy the land, that this land would be engulfed in the
depths of the Pacific, they would have imperturbably replied,--

“Cyrus is here!”

While in the palanquin, however, the engineer had again relapsed into
unconsciousness, which the jolting to which he had been subjected during
his journey had brought on, so that they could not now appeal to his
ingenuity. The supper must necessarily be very meager. In fact, all the
grouse flesh had been consumed, and there no longer existed any means of
cooking more game. Besides, the couroucous which had been reserved had
disappeared. They must consider what was to be done.

First of all, Cyrus Harding was carried into the central passage. There
they managed to arrange for him a couch of sea-weed which still remained
almost dry. The deep sleep which had overpowered him would no doubt be
more beneficial to him than any nourishment.

Night had closed in, and the temperature, which had modified when the
wind shifted to the northwest, again became extremely cold. Also, the
sea having destroyed the partitions which Pencroft had put up in certain
places in the passages, the Chimneys, on account of the draughts, had
become scarcely habitable. The engineer’s condition would, therefore,
have been bad enough, if his companions had not carefully covered him
with their coats and waistcoats.

Supper, this evening, was of course composed of the inevitable
lithodomes, of which Herbert and Neb picked up a plentiful supply on the
beach. However, to these molluscs, the lad added some edible sea-weed,
which he gathered on high rocks, whose sides were only washed by the sea
at the time of high tides. This sea-weed, which belongs to the order
of Fucacae, of the genus Sargassum, produces, when dry, a gelatinous
matter, rich and nutritious. The reporter and his companions, after
having eaten a quantity of lithodomes, sucked the sargassum, of which
the taste was very tolerable. It is used in parts of the East very
considerably by the natives. “Never mind!” said the sailor, “the captain
will help us soon.” Meanwhile the cold became very severe, and unhappily
they had no means of defending themselves from it.

The sailor, extremely vexed, tried in all sorts of ways to procure fire.
Neb helped him in this work. He found some dry moss, and by striking
together two pebbles he obtained some sparks, but the moss, not being
inflammable enough, did not take fire, for the sparks were really only
incandescent, and not at all of the same consistency as those which
are emitted from flint when struck in the same manner. The experiment,
therefore, did not succeed.

Pencroft, although he had no confidence in the proceeding, then tried
rubbing two pieces of dry wood together, as savages do. Certainly, the
movement which he and Neb exhibited, if it had been transformed into
heat, according to the new theory, would have been enough to heat the
boiler of a steamer! It came to nothing. The bits of wood became hot, to
be sure, but much less so than the operators themselves.

After working an hour, Pencroft, who was in a complete state of
perspiration, threw down the pieces of wood in disgust.

“I can never be made to believe that savages light their fires in this
way, let them say what they will,” he exclaimed. “I could sooner light
my arms by rubbing them against each other!”

The sailor was wrong to despise the proceeding. Savages often kindle
wood by means of rapid rubbing. But every sort of wood does not answer
for the purpose, and besides, there is “the knack,” following the usual
expression, and it is probable that Pencroft had not “the knack.”

Pencroft’s ill humor did not last long. Herbert had taken the bits of
wood which he had turned down, and was exerting himself to rub them.
The hardy sailor could not restrain a burst of laughter on seeing the
efforts of the lad to succeed where he had failed.

“Rub, my boy, rub!” said he.

“I am rubbing,” replied Herbert, laughing, “but I don’t pretend to do
anything else but warm myself instead of shivering, and soon I shall be
as hot as you are, my good Pencroft!”

This soon happened. However, they were obliged to give up, for this
night at least, the attempt to procure fire. Gideon Spilett repeated,
for the twentieth time, that Cyrus Harding would not have been troubled
for so small a difficulty. And, in the meantime, he stretched himself in
one of the passages on his bed of sand. Herbert, Neb, and Pencroft did
the same, while Top slept at his master’s feet.

Next day, the 28th of March, when the engineer awoke, about eight in the
morning, he saw his companions around him watching his sleep, and, as on
the day before, his first words were:--

“Island or continent?” This was his uppermost thought.

“Well!” replied Pencroft, “we don’t know anything about it, captain!”

“You don’t know yet?”

“But we shall know,” rejoined Pencroft, “when you have guided us into
the country.”

“I think I am able to try it,” replied the engineer, who, without much
effort, rose and stood upright.

“That’s capital!” cried the sailor.

“I feel dreadfully weak,” replied Harding. “Give me something to eat, my
friends, and it will soon go off. You have fire, haven’t you?”

This question was not immediately replied to. But, in a few seconds--

“Alas! we have no fire,” said Pencroft, “or rather, captain, we have it
no longer!”

And the sailor recounted all that had passed the day before. He amused
the engineer by the history of the single match, then his abortive
attempt to procure fire in the savages’ way.

“We shall consider,” replied the engineer, “and if we do not find some
substance similar to tinder--”

“Well?” asked the sailor.

“Well, we will make matches.

“Chemicals?”

“Chemicals!”

“It is not more difficult than that,” cried the reporter, striking the
sailor on the shoulder.

The latter did not think it so simple, but he did not protest. All went
out. The weather had become very fine. The sun was rising from the sea’s
horizon, and touched with golden spangles the prismatic rugosities of
the huge precipice.

Having thrown a rapid glance around him, the engineer seated himself on
a block of stone. Herbert offered him a few handfuls of shell-fish and
sargassum, saying,--

“It is all that we have, Captain Harding.”

“Thanks, my boy,” replied Harding; “it will do--for this morning at
least.”

He ate the wretched food with appetite, and washed it down with a little
fresh water, drawn from the river in an immense shell.

His companions looked at him without speaking. Then, feeling somewhat
refreshed, Cyrus Harding crossed his arms, and said,--

“So, my friends, you do not know yet whether fate has thrown us on an
island, or on a continent?”

“No, captain,” replied the boy.

“We shall know to-morrow,” said the engineer; “till then, there is
nothing to be done.”

“Yes,” replied Pencroft.

“What?”

“Fire,” said the sailor, who, also, had a fixed idea.

“We will make it, Pencroft,” replied Harding.

“While you were carrying me yesterday, did I not see in the west a
mountain which commands the country?”

“Yes,” replied Spilett, “a mountain which must be rather high--”

“Well,” replied the engineer, “we will climb to the summit to-morrow,
and then we shall see if this land is an island or a continent. Till
then, I repeat, there is nothing to be done.”

“Yes, fire!” said the obstinate sailor again.

“But he will make us a fire!” replied Gideon Spilett, “only have a
little patience, Pencroft!”

The seaman looked at Spilett in a way which seemed to say, “If it
depended upon you to do it, we wouldn’t taste roast meat very soon”; but
he was silent.

Meanwhile Captain Harding had made no reply. He appeared to be very
little troubled by the question of fire. For a few minutes he remained
absorbed in thought; then again speaking,--

“My friends,” said he, “our situation is, perhaps, deplorable; but, at
any rate, it is very plain. Either we are on a continent, and then, at
the expense of greater or less fatigue, we shall reach some inhabited
place, or we are on an island. In the latter case, if the island is
inhabited, we will try to get out of the scrape with the help of its
inhabitants; if it is desert, we will try to get out of the scrape by
ourselves.”

“Certainly, nothing could be plainer,” replied Pencroft.

“But, whether it is an island or a continent,” asked Gideon Spilett,
“whereabouts do you think, Cyrus, this storm has thrown us?”

“I cannot say exactly,” replied the engineer, “but I presume it is
some land in the Pacific. In fact, when we left Richmond, the wind was
blowing from the northeast, and its very violence greatly proves that
it could not have varied. If the direction has been maintained from
the northeast to the southwest, we have traversed the States of North
Carolina, of South Carolina, of Georgia, the Gulf of Mexico, Mexico,
itself, in its narrow part, then a part of the Pacific Ocean. I cannot
estimate the distance traversed by the balloon at less than six to seven
thousand miles, and, even supposing that the wind had varied half a
quarter, it must have brought us either to the archipelago of Mendava,
either on the Pomotous, or even, if it had a greater strength than I
suppose, to the land of New Zealand. If the last hypothesis is correct,
it will be easy enough to get home again. English or Maoris, we shall
always find some one to whom we can speak. If, on the contrary, this is
the coast of a desert island in some tiny archipelago, perhaps we shall
be able to reconnoiter it from the summit of that peak which overlooks
the country, and then we shall see how best to establish ourselves here
as if we are never to go away.”

“Never?” cried the reporter. “You say ‘Never,’ my dear Cyrus?”

“Better to put things at the worst at first,” replied the engineer, “and
reserve the best for a surprise.”

“Well said,” remarked Pencroft. “It is to be hoped, too, that this
island, if it be one, is not situated just out of the course of ships;
that would be really unlucky!”

“We shall not know what we have to rely on until we have first made the
ascent of the mountain,” replied the engineer.

“But to-morrow, captain,” asked Herbert, “shall you be in a state to
bear the fatigue of the ascent?”

“I hope so,” replied the engineer, “provided you and Pencroft, my boy,
show yourselves quick and clever hunters.”

“Captain,” said the sailor, “since you are speaking of game, if on my
return, I was as certain of roasting it as I am of bringing it back--”

“Bring it back all the same, Pencroft,” replied Harding.

It was then agreed that the engineer and the reporter were to pass the
day at the Chimneys, so as to examine the shore and the upper plateau.
Neb, Herbert, and the sailor were to return to the forest, renew their
store of wood, and lay violent hands on every creature, feathered or
hairy, which might come within their reach.

They set out accordingly about ten o’clock in the morning, Herbert
confident, Neb joyous, Pencroft murmuring aside,--

“If, on my return, I find a fire at the house, I shall believe that
the thunder itself came to light it.” All three climbed the bank; and
arrived at the angle made by the river, the sailor, stopping, said to
his two companions,--

“Shall we begin by being hunters or wood-men?”

“Hunters,” replied Herbert. “There is Top already in quest.”

“We will hunt, then,” said the sailor, “and afterwards we can come back
and collect our wood.”

This agreed to, Herbert, Neb, and Pencroft, after having torn three
sticks from the trunk of a young fir, followed Top, who was bounding
about among the long grass.

This time, the hunters, instead of following the course of the river,
plunged straight into the heart of the forest. There were still the
same trees, belonging, for the most part, to the pine family. In
certain places, less crowded, growing in clumps, these pines exhibited
considerable dimensions, and appeared to indicate, by their development,
that the country was situated in a higher latitude than the engineer had
supposed. Glades, bristling with stumps worn away by time, were covered
with dry wood, which formed an inexhaustible store of fuel. Then,
the glade passed, the underwood thickened again, and became almost
impenetrable.

It was difficult enough to find the way among the groups of trees,
without any beaten track. So the sailor from time to time broke off
branches which might be easily recognized. But, perhaps, he was wrong
not to follow the watercourse, as he and Herbert had done on their first
excursion, for after walking an hour not a creature had shown itself.
Top, running under the branches, only roused birds which could not be
approached. Even the couroucous were invisible, and it was probable that
the sailor would be obliged to return to the marshy part of the forest,
in which he had so happily performed his grouse fishing.

“Well, Pencroft,” said Neb, in a slightly sarcastic tone, “if this is
all the game which you promised to bring back to my master, it won’t
need a large fire to roast it!”

“Have patience,” replied the sailor, “it isn’t the game which will be
wanting on our return.”

“Have you not confidence in Captain Harding?”

“Yes.”

“But you don’t believe that he will make fire?”

“I shall believe it when the wood is blazing in the fireplace.”

“It will blaze, since my master has said so.”

“We shall see!”

Meanwhile, the sun had not reached the highest point in its course above
the horizon. The exploration, therefore, continued, and was usefully
marked by a discovery which Herbert made of a tree whose fruit was
edible. This was the stone-pine, which produces an excellent almond,
very much esteemed in the temperate regions of America and Europe. These
almonds were in a perfect state of maturity, and Herbert described them
to his companions, who feasted on them.

“Come,” said Pencroft, “sea-weed by way of bread, raw mussels for meat,
and almonds for dessert, that’s certainly a good dinner for those who
have not a single match in their pocket!”

“We mustn’t complain,” said Herbert.

“I am not complaining, my boy,” replied Pencroft, “only I repeat, that
meat is a little too much economized in this sort of meal.”

“Top has found something!” cried Neb, who ran towards a thicket, in the
midst of which the dog had disappeared, barking. With Top’s barking were
mingled curious gruntings.

The sailor and Herbert had followed Neb. If there was game there this
was not the time to discuss how it was to be cooked, but rather, how
they were to get hold of it.

The hunters had scarcely entered the bushes when they saw Top engaged
in a struggle with an animal which he was holding by the ear. This
quadruped was a sort of pig nearly two feet and a half long, of a
blackish brown color, lighter below, having hard scanty hair; its toes,
then strongly fixed in the ground, seemed to be united by a membrane.
Herbert recognized in this animal the capybara, that is to say, one of
the largest members of the rodent order.

Meanwhile, the capybara did not struggle against the dog. It stupidly
rolled its eyes, deeply buried in a thick bed of fat. Perhaps it saw men
for the first time.

However, Neb having tightened his grasp on his stick, was just going to
fell the pig, when the latter, tearing itself from Top’s teeth, by which
it was only held by the tip of its ear, uttered a vigorous grunt, rushed
upon Herbert, almost overthrew him, and disappeared in the wood.

“The rascal!” cried Pencroft.

All three directly darted after Top, but at the moment when they joined
him the animal had disappeared under the waters of a large pond shaded
by venerable pines.

Neb, Herbert, and Pencroft stopped, motionless. Top plunged into the
water, but the capybara, hidden at the bottom of the pond, did not
appear.

“Let us wait,” said the boy, “for he will soon come to the surface to
breathe.”

“Won’t he drown?” asked Neb.

“No,” replied Herbert, “since he has webbed feet, and is almost an
amphibious animal. But watch him.”

Top remained in the water. Pencroft and his two companions went to
different parts of the bank, so as to cut off the retreat of the
capybara, which the dog was looking for beneath the water.

Herbert was not mistaken. In a few minutes the animal appeared on the
surface of the water. Top was upon it in a bound, and kept it from
plunging again. An instant later the capybara, dragged to the bank, was
killed by a blow from Neb’s stick.

“Hurrah!” cried Pencroft, who was always ready with this cry of triumph.

“Give me but a good fire, and this pig shall be gnawed to the bones!”

Pencroft hoisted the capybara on his shoulders, and judging by the
height of the sun that it was about two o’clock, he gave the signal to
return.

Top’s instinct was useful to the hunters, who, thanks to the intelligent
animal, were enabled to discover the road by which they had come. Half
an hour later they arrived at the river.

Pencroft soon made a raft of wood, as he had done before, though if
there was no fire it would be a useless task, and the raft following the
current, they returned towards the Chimneys.

But the sailor had not gone fifty paces when he stopped, and again
uttering a tremendous hurrah, pointed towards the angle of the cliff,--

“Herbert! Neb! Look!” he shouted.

Smoke was escaping and curling up among the rocks.



Chapter 10

In a few minutes the three hunters were before a crackling fire. The
captain and the reporter were there. Pencroft looked from one to the
other, his capybara in his hand, without saying a word.

“Well, yes, my brave fellow,” cried the reporter.

“Fire, real fire, which will roast this splendid pig perfectly, and we
will have a feast presently!”

“But who lighted it?” asked Pencroft.

“The sun!”

Gideon Spilett was quite right in his reply. It was the sun which
had furnished the heat which so astonished Pencroft. The sailor could
scarcely believe his eyes, and he was so amazed that he did not think of
questioning the engineer.

“Had you a burning-glass, sir?” asked Herbert of Harding.

“No, my boy,” replied he, “but I made one.”

And he showed the apparatus which served for a burning-glass. It was
simply two glasses which he had taken from his own and the reporter’s
watches. Having filled them with water and rendered their edges adhesive
by means of a little clay, he thus fabricated a regular burning-glass,
which, concentrating the solar rays on some very dry moss, soon caused
it to blaze.

The sailor considered the apparatus; then he gazed at the engineer
without saying a word, only a look plainly expressed his opinion that if
Cyrus Harding was not a magician, he was certainly no ordinary man. At
last speech returned to him, and he cried,--

“Note that, Mr. Spilett, note that down on your paper!”

“It is noted,” replied the reporter.

Then, Neb helping him, the seaman arranged the spit, and the capybara,
properly cleaned, was soon roasting like a suckling-pig before a clear,
crackling fire.

The Chimneys had again become more habitable, not only because the
passages were warmed by the fire, but because the partitions of wood and
mud had been re-established.

It was evident that the engineer and his companions had employed their
day well. Cyrus Harding had almost entirely recovered his strength, and
had proved it by climbing to the upper plateau. From this point his eye,
accustomed to estimate heights and distances, was fixed for a long time
on the cone, the summit of which he wished to reach the next day. The
mountain, situated about six miles to the northwest, appeared to him to
measure 3,500 feet above the level of the sea. Consequently the gaze of
an observer posted on its summit would extend over a radius of at least
fifty miles. Therefore it was probable that Harding could easily solve
the question of “island or continent,” to which he attached so much
importance.

They supped capitally. The flesh of the capybara was declared excellent.
The sargassum and the almonds of the stone-pine completed the repast,
during which the engineer spoke little. He was preoccupied with projects
for the next day.

Once or twice Pencroft gave forth some ideas upon what it would be best
to do; but Cyrus Harding, who was evidently of a methodical mind, only
shook his head without uttering a word.

“To-morrow,” he repeated, “we shall know what we have to depend upon,
and we will act accordingly.”

The meal ended, fresh armfuls of wood were thrown on the fire, and
the inhabitants of the Chimneys, including the faithful Top, were soon
buried in a deep sleep.

No incident disturbed this peaceful night, and the next day, the 29th
of March, fresh and active they awoke, ready to undertake the excursion
which must determine their fate.

All was ready for the start. The remains of the capybara would be enough
to sustain Harding and his companions for at least twenty-four hours.

Besides, they hoped to find more food on the way. As the glasses had
been returned to the watches of the engineer and reporter, Pencroft
burned a little linen to serve as tinder. As to flint, that would not be
wanting in these regions of Plutonic origin. It was half-past seven in
the morning when the explorers, armed with sticks, left the Chimneys.
Following Pencroft’s advice, it appeared best to take the road already
traversed through the forest, and to return by another route. It was
also the most direct way to reach the mountain. They turned the south
angle and followed the left bank of the river, which was abandoned at
the point where it formed an elbow towards the southwest. The path,
already trodden under the evergreen trees, was found, and at nine
o’clock Cyrus Harding and his companions had reached the western border
of the forest. The ground, till then, very little undulated, boggy at
first, dry and sandy afterwards, had a gentle slope, which ascended from
the shore towards the interior of the country. A few very timid animals
were seen under the forest-trees. Top quickly started them, but his
master soon called him back, for the time had not come to commence
hunting; that would be attended to later. The engineer was not a man who
would allow himself to be diverted from his fixed idea. It might even
have been said that he did not observe the country at all, either in
its configuration or in its natural productions, his great aim being
to climb the mountain before him, and therefore straight towards it he
went. At ten o’clock a halt of a few minutes was made. On leaving
the forest, the mountain system of the country appeared before the
explorers. The mountain was composed of two cones; the first, truncated
at a height of about two thousand five hundred feet, was sustained by
buttresses, which appeared to branch out like the talons of an immense
claw set on the ground. Between these were narrow valleys, bristling
with trees, the last clumps of which rose to the top of the lowest cone.
There appeared to be less vegetation on that side of the mountain which
was exposed to the northeast, and deep fissures could be seen which, no
doubt, were watercourses.

On the first cone rested a second, slightly rounded, and placed a little
on one side, like a great round hat cocked over the ear. A Scotchman
would have said, “His bonnet was a thocht ajee.” It appeared formed of
bare earth, here and there pierced by reddish rocks.

They wished to reach the second cone, and proceeding along the ridge of
the spurs seemed to be the best way by which to gain it.

“We are on volcanic ground,” Cyrus Harding had said, and his companions
following him began to ascend by degrees on the back of a spur, which,
by a winding and consequently more accessible path, joined the first
plateau.

The ground had evidently been convulsed by subterranean force. Here and
there stray blocks, numerous debris of basalt and pumice-stone, were met
with. In isolated groups rose fir-trees, which, some hundred feet
lower, at the bottom of the narrow gorges, formed massive shades almost
impenetrable to the sun’s rays.

During the first part of the ascent, Herbert remarked on the footprints
which indicated the recent passage of large animals.

“Perhaps these beasts will not let us pass by willingly,” said Pencroft.

“Well,” replied the reporter, who had already hunted the tiger in
India, and the lion in Africa, “we shall soon learn how successfully to
encounter them. But in the meantime we must be upon our guard!”

They ascended but slowly.

The distance, increased by detours and obstacles which could not be
surmounted directly, was long. Sometimes, too, the ground suddenly fell,
and they found themselves on the edge of a deep chasm which they had to
go round. Thus, in retracing their steps so as to find some practicable
path, much time was employed and fatigue undergone for nothing. At
twelve o’clock, when the small band of adventurers halted for breakfast
at the foot of a large group of firs, near a little stream which fell in
cascades, they found themselves still half way from the first plateau,
which most probably they would not reach till nightfall. From this
point the view of the sea was much extended, but on the right the high
promontory prevented their seeing whether there was land beyond it. On
the left, the sight extended several miles to the north; but, on the
northwest, at the point occupied by the explorers, it was cut short
by the ridge of a fantastically-shaped spur, which formed a powerful
support of the central cone.

At one o’clock the ascent was continued. They slanted more towards the
southwest and again entered among thick bushes. There under the shade
of the trees fluttered several couples of gallinaceae belonging to the
pheasant species. They were tragopans, ornamented by a pendant skin
which hangs over their throats, and by two small, round horns, planted
behind the eyes. Among these birds, which were about the size of a fowl,
the female was uniformly brown, while the male was gorgeous in his
red plumage, decorated with white spots. Gideon Spilett, with a stone
cleverly and vigorously thrown, killed one of these tragopans, on which
Pencroft, made hungry by the fresh air, had cast greedy eyes.

After leaving the region of bushes, the party, assisted by resting on
each other’s shoulders, climbed for about a hundred feet up a steep
acclivity and reached a level place, with very few trees, where the soil
appeared volcanic. It was necessary to ascend by zigzags to make
the slope more easy, for it was very steep, and the footing being
exceedingly precarious required the greatest caution. Neb and Herbert
took the lead, Pencroft the rear, the captain and the reporter between
them. The animals which frequented these heights--and there were
numerous traces of them--must necessarily belong to those races of sure
foot and supple spine, chamois or goat. Several were seen, but this
was not the name Pencroft gave them, for all of a sudden--“Sheep!” he
shouted.

All stopped about fifty feet from half-a-dozen animals of a large size,
with strong horns bent back and flattened towards the point, with a
woolly fleece, hidden under long silky hair of a tawny color.

They were not ordinary sheep, but a species usually found in the
mountainous regions of the temperate zone, to which Herbert gave the
name of the musmon.

“Have they legs and chops?” asked the sailor.

“Yes,” replied Herbert.

“Well, then, they are sheep!” said Pencroft.

The animals, motionless among the blocks of basalt, gazed with an
astonished eye, as if they saw human bipeds for the first time. Then
their fears suddenly aroused, they disappeared, bounding over the rocks.

“Good-bye, till we meet again,” cried Pencroft, as he watched them, in
such a comical tone that Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, and Neb
could not help laughing.

The ascent was continued. Here and there were traces of lava. Sulphur
springs sometimes stopped their way, and they had to go round them. In
some places the sulphur had formed crystals among other substances, such
as whitish cinders made of an infinity of little feldspar crystals.

In approaching the first plateau formed by the truncating of the lower
cone, the difficulties of the ascent were very great. Towards four
o’clock the extreme zone of the trees had been passed. There only
remained here and there a few twisted, stunted pines, which must have
had a hard life in resisting at this altitude the high winds from the
open sea. Happily for the engineer and his companions the weather was
beautiful, the atmosphere tranquil; for a high breeze at an elevation of
three thousand feet would have hindered their proceedings. The purity
of the sky at the zenith was felt through the transparent air. A perfect
calm reigned around them. They could not see the sun, then hid by the
vast screen of the upper cone, which masked the half-horizon of the
west, and whose enormous shadow stretching to the shore increased as
the radiant luminary sank in its diurnal course. Vapor--mist rather than
clouds--began to appear in the east, and assume all the prismatic colors
under the influence of the solar rays.

Five hundred feet only separated the explorers from the plateau, which
they wished to reach so as to establish there an encampment for the
night, but these five hundred feet were increased to more than two miles
by the zigzags which they had to describe. The soil, as it were, slid
under their feet.

The slope often presented such an angle that they slipped when the
stones worn by the air did not give a sufficient support. Evening
came on by degrees, and it was almost night when Cyrus Harding and his
companions, much fatigued by an ascent of seven hours, arrived at
the plateau of the first cone. It was then necessary to prepare an
encampment, and to restore their strength by eating first and sleeping
afterwards. This second stage of the mountain rose on a base of rocks,
among which it would be easy to find a retreat. Fuel was not abundant.
However, a fire could be made by means of the moss and dry brushwood,
which covered certain parts of the plateau. While the sailor was
preparing his hearth with stones which he put to this use, Neb and
Herbert occupied themselves with getting a supply of fuel. They soon
returned with a load of brushwood. The steel was struck, the burnt linen
caught the sparks of flint, and, under Neb’s breath, a crackling fire
showed itself in a few minutes under the shelter of the rocks. Their
object in lighting a fire was only to enable them to withstand the cold
temperature of the night, as it was not employed in cooking the bird,
which Neb kept for the next day. The remains of the capybara and
some dozens of the stone-pine almonds formed their supper. It was not
half-past six when all was finished.

Cyrus Harding then thought of exploring in the half-light the large
circular layer which supported the upper cone of the mountain. Before
taking any rest, he wished to know if it was possible to get round the
base of the cone in the case of its sides being too steep and its summit
being inaccessible. This question preoccupied him, for it was possible
that from the way the hat inclined, that is to say, towards the north,
the plateau was not practicable. Also, if the summit of the mountain
could not be reached on one side, and if, on the other, they could not
get round the base of the cone, it would be impossible to survey the
western part of the country, and their object in making the ascent would
in part be altogether unattained.

The engineer, accordingly, regardless of fatigue, leaving Pencroft and
Neb to arrange the beds, and Gideon Spilett to note the incidents of the
day, began to follow the edge of the plateau, going towards the north.
Herbert accompanied him.

The night was beautiful and still, the darkness was not yet deep. Cyrus
Harding and the boy walked near each other, without speaking. In
some places the plateau opened before them, and they passed without
hindrance. In others, obstructed by rocks, there was only a narrow path,
in which two persons could not walk abreast. After a walk of twenty
minutes, Cyrus Harding and Herbert were obliged to stop. From this point
the slope of the two cones became one. No shoulder here separated the
two parts of the mountain. The slope, being inclined almost seventy
degrees, the path became impracticable.

But if the engineer and the boy were obliged to give up thoughts of
following a circular direction, in return an opportunity was given for
ascending the cone.

In fact, before them opened a deep hollow. It was the rugged mouth
of the crater, by which the eruptive liquid matter had escaped at
the periods when the volcano was still in activity. Hardened lava and
crusted scoria formed a sort of natural staircase of large steps, which
would greatly facilitate the ascent to the summit of the mountain.

Harding took all this in at a glance, and without hesitating, followed
by the lad, he entered the enormous chasm in the midst of an increasing
obscurity.

There was still a height of a thousand feet to overcome. Would the
interior acclivities of the crater be practicable? It would soon be
seen. The persevering engineer resolved to continue his ascent until
he was stopped. Happily these acclivities wound up the interior of the
volcano and favored their ascent.

As to the volcano itself, it could not be doubted that it was completely
extinct. No smoke escaped from its sides; not a flame could be seen in
the dark hollows; not a roar, not a mutter, no trembling even issued
from this black well, which perhaps reached far into the bowels of the
earth. The atmosphere inside the crater was filled with no sulphurous
vapor. It was more than the sleep of a volcano; it was its complete
extinction. Cyrus Harding’s attempt would succeed.

Little by little, Herbert and he climbing up the sides of the interior,
saw the crater widen above their heads. The radius of this circular
portion of the sky, framed by the edge of the cone, increased obviously.
At each step, as it were, that the explorers made, fresh stars entered
the field of their vision. The magnificent constellations of the
southern sky shone resplendently. At the zenith glittered the splendid
Antares in the Scorpion, and not far was Alpha Centauri, which is
believed to be the nearest star to the terrestrial globe. Then, as the
crater widened, appeared Fomalhaut of the Fish, the Southern Triangle,
and lastly, nearly at the Antarctic Pole, the glittering Southern Cross,
which replaces the Polar Star of the Northern Hemisphere.

It was nearly eight o’clock when Cyrus Harding and Herbert set foot on
the highest ridge of the mountain at the summit of the cone.

It was then perfectly dark, and their gaze could not extend over a
radius of two miles. Did the sea surround this unknown land, or was it
connected in the west with some continent of the Pacific? It could not
yet be made out. Towards the west, a cloudy belt, clearly visible at the
horizon, increased the gloom, and the eye could not discover if the sky
and water were blended together in the same circular line.

But at one point of the horizon a vague light suddenly appeared, which
descended slowly in proportion as the cloud mounted to the zenith.

It was the slender crescent moon, already almost disappearing; but its
light was sufficient to show clearly the horizontal line, then detached
from the cloud, and the engineer could see its reflection trembling for
an instant on a liquid surface. Cyrus Harding seized the lad’s hand, and
in a grave voice,--

“An island!” said he, at the moment when the lunar crescent disappeared
beneath the waves.



Chapter 11

Half an hour later Cyrus Harding and Herbert had returned to the
encampment. The engineer merely told his companions that the land upon
which fate had thrown them was an island, and that the next day they
would consult. Then each settled himself as well as he could to sleep,
and in that rocky hole, at a height of two thousand five hundred feet
above the level of the sea, through a peaceful night, the islanders
enjoyed profound repose.

The next day, the 30th of March, after a hasty breakfast, which
consisted solely of the roasted tragopan, the engineer wished to climb
again to the summit of the volcano, so as more attentively to survey
the island upon which he and his companions were imprisoned for life
perhaps, should the island be situated at a great distance from any
land, or if it was out of the course of vessels which visited the
archipelagoes of the Pacific Ocean. This time his companions followed
him in the new exploration. They also wished to see the island, on the
productions of which they must depend for the supply of all their wants.

It was about seven o’clock in the morning when Cyrus Harding, Herbert,
Pencroft, Gideon Spilett, and Neb quitted the encampment. No one
appeared to be anxious about their situation. They had faith in
themselves, doubtless, but it must be observed that the basis of this
faith was not the same with Harding as with his companions. The engineer
had confidence, because he felt capable of extorting from this wild
country everything necessary for the life of himself and his companions;
the latter feared nothing, just because Cyrus Harding was with them.
Pencroft especially, since the incident of the relighted fire, would
not have despaired for an instant, even if he was on a bare rock, if the
engineer was with him on the rock.

“Pshaw,” said he, “we left Richmond without permission from the
authorities! It will be hard if we don’t manage to get away some day or
other from a place where certainly no one will detain us!”

Cyrus Harding followed the same road as the evening before. They went
round the cone by the plateau which formed the shoulder, to the mouth of
the enormous chasm. The weather was magnificent. The sun rose in a pure
sky and flooded with his rays all the eastern side of the mountain.

The crater was reached. It was just what the engineer had made it out to
be in the dark; that is to say, a vast funnel which extended, widening,
to a height of a thousand feet above the plateau. Below the chasm, large
thick streaks of lava wound over the sides of the mountain, and thus
marked the course of the eruptive matter to the lower valleys which
furrowed the northern part of the island.

The interior of the crater, whose inclination did not exceed thirty five
to forty degrees, presented no difficulties nor obstacles to the ascent.
Traces of very ancient lava were noticed, which probably had overflowed
the summit of the cone, before this lateral chasm had opened a new way
to it.

As to the volcanic chimney which established a communication between the
subterranean layers and the crater, its depth could not be calculated
with the eye, for it was lost in obscurity. But there was no doubt as to
the complete extinction of the volcano.

Before eight o’clock Harding and his companions were assembled at the
summit of the crater, on a conical mound which swelled the northern
edge.

“The sea, the sea everywhere!” they cried, as if their lips could not
restrain the words which made islanders of them.

The sea, indeed, formed an immense circular sheet of water all around
them! Perhaps, on climbing again to the summit of the cone, Cyrus
Harding had had a hope of discovering some coast, some island shore,
which he had not been able to perceive in the dark the evening before.
But nothing appeared on the farthest verge of the horizon, that is to
say over a radius of more than fifty miles. No land in sight. Not a
sail. Over all this immense space the ocean alone was visible--the
island occupied the center of a circumference which appeared to be
infinite.

The engineer and his companions, mute and motionless, surveyed for
some minutes every point of the ocean, examining it to its most extreme
limits. Even Pencroft, who possessed a marvelous power of sight, saw
nothing; and certainly if there had been land at the horizon, if it
appeared only as an indistinct vapor, the sailor would undoubtedly
have found it out, for nature had placed regular telescopes under his
eyebrows.

From the ocean their gaze returned to the island which they commanded
entirely, and the first question was put by Gideon Spilett in these
terms:

“About what size is this island?”

Truly, it did not appear large in the midst of the immense ocean.

Cyrus Harding reflected a few minutes; he attentively observed the
perimeter of the island, taking into consideration the height at which
he was placed; then,--

“My friends,” said he, “I do not think I am mistaken in giving to the
shore of the island a circumference of more than a hundred miles.”

“And consequently an area?”

“That is difficult to estimate,” replied the engineer, “for it is so
uneven.”

If Cyrus Harding was not mistaken in his calculation, the island had
almost the extent of Malta or Zante, in the Mediterranean, but it was at
the same time much more irregular and less rich in capes, promontories,
points, bays, or creeks. Its strange form caught the eye, and when
Gideon Spilett, on the engineer’s advice, had drawn the outline, they
found that it resembled some fantastic animal, a monstrous leviathan,
which lay sleeping on the surface of the Pacific.

This was in fact the exact shape of the island, which it is of
consequence to know, and a tolerably correct map of it was immediately
drawn by the reporter.

The east part of the shore, where the castaways had landed, formed a
wide bay, terminated by a sharp cape, which had been concealed by a high
point from Pencroft on his first exploration. At the northeast two other
capes closed the bay, and between them ran a narrow gulf, which looked
like the half-open jaws of a formidable dog-fish.

From the northeast to the southwest the coast was rounded, like
the flattened cranium of an animal, rising again, forming a sort of
protuberance which did not give any particular shape to this part of the
island, of which the center was occupied by the volcano.

From this point the shore ran pretty regularly north and south, broken
at two-thirds of its perimeter by a narrow creek, from which it ended in
a long tail, similar to the caudal appendage of a gigantic alligator.

This tail formed a regular peninsula, which stretched more than thirty
miles into the sea, reckoning from the cape southeast of the island,
already mentioned; it curled round, making an open roadstead, which
marked out the lower shore of this strangely-formed land.

At the narrowest part, that is to say between the Chimneys and the creek
on the western shore, which corresponded to it in latitude, the island
only measured ten miles; but its greatest length, from the jaws at the
northeast to the extremity of the tail of the southwest, was not less
than thirty miles.

As to the interior of the island, its general aspect was this, very
woody throughout the southern part from the mountain to the shore, and
arid and sandy in the northern part. Between the volcano and the east
coast Cyrus Harding and his companions were surprised to see a
lake, bordered with green trees, the existence of which they had not
suspected. Seen from this height, the lake appeared to be on the same
level as the ocean, but, on reflection, the engineer explained to his
companions that the altitude of this little sheet of water must be about
three hundred feet, because the plateau, which was its basin, was but a
prolongation of the coast.

“Is it a freshwater lake?” asked Pencroft.

“Certainly,” replied the engineer, “for it must be fed by the water
which flows from the mountain.”

“I see a little river which runs into it,” said Herbert, pointing out a
narrow stream, which evidently took its source somewhere in the west.

“Yes,” said Harding; “and since this stream feeds the lake, most
probably on the side near the sea there is an outlet by which the
surplus water escapes. We shall see that on our return.”

This little winding watercourse and the river already mentioned
constituted the water-system, at least such as it was displayed to the
eyes of the explorers. However, it was possible that under the masses of
trees which covered two-thirds of the island, forming an immense forest,
other rivers ran towards the sea. It might even be inferred that such
was the case, so rich did this region appear in the most magnificent
specimens of the flora of the temperate zones. There was no indication
of running water in the north, though perhaps there might be stagnant
water among the marshes in the northeast; but that was all, in addition
to the downs, sand, and aridity which contrasted so strongly with the
luxuriant vegetation of the rest of the island.

The volcano did not occupy the central part; it rose, on the contrary,
in the northwestern region, and seemed to mark the boundary of the two
zones. At the southwest, at the south, and the southeast, the first part
of the spurs were hidden under masses of verdure. At the north, on the
contrary, one could follow their ramifications, which died away on the
sandy plains. It was on this side that, at the time when the mountain
was in a state of eruption, the discharge had worn away a passage, and
a large heap of lava had spread to the narrow jaw which formed the
northeastern gulf.

Cyrus Harding and his companions remained an hour at the top of the
mountain. The island was displayed under their eyes, like a plan in
relief with different tints, green for the forests, yellow for the
sand, blue for the water. They viewed it in its tout-ensemble, nothing
remained concealed but the ground hidden by verdure, the hollows of the
valleys, and the interior of the volcanic chasms.

One important question remained to be solved, and the answer would have
a great effect upon the future of the castaways.

Was the island inhabited?

It was the reporter who put this question, to which after the close
examination they had just made, the answer seemed to be in the negative.

Nowhere could the work of a human hand be perceived. Not a group of
huts, not a solitary cabin, not a fishery on the shore. No smoke curling
in the air betrayed the presence of man. It is true, a distance of
nearly thirty miles separated the observers from the extreme points,
that is, of the tail which extended to the southwest, and it would have
been difficult, even to Pencroft’s eyes, to discover a habitation there.
Neither could the curtain of verdure, which covered three-quarters
of the island, be raised to see if it did not shelter some straggling
village. But in general the islanders live on the shores of the narrow
spaces which emerge above the waters of the Pacific, and this shore
appeared to be an absolute desert.

Until a more complete exploration, it might be admitted that the island
was uninhabited. But was it frequented, at least occasionally, by
the natives of neighboring islands? It was difficult to reply to this
question. No land appeared within a radius of fifty miles. But fifty
miles could be easily crossed, either by Malay proas or by the large
Polynesian canoes. Everything depended on the position of the island,
of its isolation in the Pacific, or of its proximity to archipelagoes.
Would Cyrus Harding be able to find out their latitude and longitude
without instruments? It would be difficult. Since he was in doubt, it
was best to take precautions against a possible descent of neighboring
natives.

The exploration of the island was finished, its shape determined, its
features made out, its extent calculated, the water and mountain systems
ascertained. The disposition of the forests and plains had been marked
in a general way on the reporter’s plan. They had now only to descend
the mountain slopes again, and explore the soil, in the triple point of
view, of its mineral, vegetable, and animal resources.

But before giving his companions the signal for departure, Cyrus Harding
said to them in a calm, grave voice,--

“Here, my friends, is the small corner of land upon which the hand of
the Almighty has thrown us. We are going to live here; a long time,
perhaps. Perhaps, too, unexpected help will arrive, if some ship passes
by chance. I say by chance, because this is an unimportant island; there
is not even a port in which ships could anchor, and it is to be feared
that it is situated out of the route usually followed, that is to say,
too much to the south for the ships which frequent the archipelagoes of
the Pacific, and too much to the north for those which go to Australia
by doubling Cape Horn. I wish to hide nothing of our position from
you--”

“And you are right, my dear Cyrus,” replied the reporter, with
animation. “You have to deal with men. They have confidence in you, and
you can depend upon them. Is it not so, my friends?”

“I will obey you in everything, captain,” said Herbert, seizing the
engineer’s hand.

“My master always, and everywhere!” cried Neb.

“As for me,” said the sailor, “if I ever grumble at work, my name’s not
Jack Pencroft, and if you like, captain, we will make a little America
of this island! We will build towns, we will establish railways, start
telegraphs, and one fine day, when it is quite changed, quite put in
order and quite civilized, we will go and offer it to the government of
the Union. Only, I ask one thing.”

“What is that?” said the reporter.

“It is, that we do not consider ourselves castaways, but colonists,
who have come here to settle.” Harding could not help smiling, and the
sailor’s idea was adopted. He then thanked his companions, and added,
that he would rely on their energy and on the aid of Heaven.

“Well, now let us set off to the Chimneys!” cried Pencroft.

“One minute, my friends,” said the engineer. “It seems to me it would
be a good thing to give a name to this island, as well as to, the capes,
promontories, and watercourses, which we can see.

“Very good,” said the reporter. “In the future, that will simplify the
instructions which we shall have to give and follow.”

“Indeed,” said the sailor, “already it is something to be able to say
where one is going, and where one has come from. At least, it looks like
somewhere.”

“The Chimneys, for example,” said Herbert.

“Exactly!” replied Pencroft. “That name was the most convenient, and it
came to me quite of myself. Shall we keep the name of the Chimneys for
our first encampment, captain?”

“Yes, Pencroft, since you have so christened it.”

“Good! as for the others, that will be easy,” returned the sailor, who
was in high spirits. “Let us give them names, as the Robinsons did,
whose story Herbert has often read to me; Providence Bay, Whale Point,
Cape Disappointment!”

“Or, rather, the names of Captain Harding,” said Herbert, “of Mr.
Spilett, of Neb!--”

“My name!” cried Neb, showing his sparkling white teeth.

“Why not?” replied Pencroft. “Port Neb, that would do very well! And
Cape Gideon--”

“I should prefer borrowing names from our country,” said the reporter,
“which would remind us of America.”

“Yes, for the principal ones,” then said Cyrus Harding; “for those of
the bays and seas, I admit it willingly. We might give to that vast bay
on the east the name of Union Bay, for example; to that large hollow on
the south, Washington Bay; to the mountain upon which we are standing,
that of Mount Franklin; to that lake which is extended under our eyes,
that of Lake Grant; nothing could be better, my friends. These names
will recall our country, and those of the great citizens who have
honored it; but for the rivers, gulfs, capes, and promontories, which we
perceive from the top of this mountain, rather let us choose names which
will recall their particular shape. They will impress themselves better
on our memory, and at the same time will be more practical. The shape of
the island is so strange that we shall not be troubled to imagine
what it resembles. As to the streams which we do not know as yet, in
different parts of the forest which we shall explore later, the creeks
which afterwards will be discovered, we can christen them as we find
them. What do you think, my friends?”

The engineer’s proposal was unanimously agreed to by his companions. The
island was spread out under their eyes like a map, and they had only to
give names to all its angles and points. Gideon Spilett would write
them down, and the geographical nomenclature of the island would be
definitely adopted. First, they named the two bays and the mountain,
Union Bay, Washington Bay, and Mount Franklin, as the engineer had
suggested.

“Now,” said the reporter, “to this peninsula at the southwest of the
island, I propose to give the name of Serpentine Peninsula, and that of
Reptile-end to the bent tail which terminates it, for it is just like a
reptile’s tail.”

“Adopted,” said the engineer.

“Now,” said Herbert, pointing to the other extremity of the island, “let
us call this gulf which is so singularly like a pair of open jaws, Shark
Gulf.”

“Capital!” cried Pencroft, “and we can complete the resemblance by
naming the two parts of the jaws Mandible Cape.”

“But there are two capes,” observed the reporter.

“Well,” replied Pencroft, “we can have North Mandible Cape and South
Mandible Cape.”

“They are inscribed,” said Spilett.

“There is only the point at the southeastern extremity of the island to
be named,” said Pencroft.

“That is, the extremity of Union Bay?” asked Herbert.

“Claw Cape,” cried Neb directly, who also wished to be godfather to some
part of his domain.

In truth, Neb had found an excellent name, for this cape was very like
the powerful claw of the fantastic animal which this singularly-shaped
island represented.

Pencroft was delighted at the turn things had taken, and their
imaginations soon gave to the river which furnished the settlers with
drinking water and near which the balloon had thrown them, the name of
the Mercy, in true gratitude to Providence. To the islet upon which the
castaways had first landed, the name of Safety Island; to the plateau
which crowned the high granite precipice above the Chimneys, and from
whence the gaze could embrace the whole of the vast bay, the name of
Prospect Heights.

Lastly, all the masses of impenetrable wood which covered the Serpentine
Peninsula were named the forests of the Far West.

The nomenclature of the visible and known parts of the island was
thus finished, and later, they would complete it as they made fresh
discoveries.

As to the points of the compass, the engineer had roughly fixed them by
the height and position of the sun, which placed Union Bay and Prospect
Heights to the east. But the next day, by taking the exact hour of the
rising and setting of the sun, and by marking its position between this
rising and setting, he reckoned to fix the north of the island exactly,
for, in consequence of its situation in the Southern Hemisphere, the
sun, at the precise moment of its culmination, passed in the north and
not in the south, as, in its apparent movement, it seems to do, to those
places situated in the Northern Hemisphere.

Everything was finished, and the settlers had only to descend Mount
Franklin to return to the Chimneys, when Pencroft cried out,--

“Well! we are preciously stupid!”

“Why?” asked Gideon Spilett, who had closed his notebook and risen to
depart.

“Why! our island! we have forgotten to christen it!”

Herbert was going to propose to give it the engineer’s name and all his
companions would have applauded him, when Cyrus Harding said simply,--

“Let us give it the name of a great citizen, my friend; of him who now
struggles to defend the unity of the American Republic! Let us call it
Lincoln Island!”

The engineer’s proposal was replied to by three hurrahs.

And that evening, before sleeping, the new colonists talked of their
absent country; they spoke of the terrible war which stained it with
blood; they could not doubt that the South would soon be subdued, and
that the cause of the North, the cause of justice, would triumph, thanks
to Grant, thanks to Lincoln!

Now this happened the 30th of March, 1865. They little knew that sixteen
days afterwards a frightful crime would be committed in Washington, and
that on Good Friday Abraham Lincoln would fall by the hand of a fanatic.



Chapter 12

They now began the descent of the mountain. Climbing down the crater,
they went round the cone and reached their encampment of the previous
night. Pencroft thought it must be breakfast-time, and the watches of
the reporter and engineer were therefore consulted to find out the hour.

That of Gideon Spilett had been preserved from the sea-water, as he had
been thrown at once on the sand out of reach of the waves. It was an
instrument of excellent quality, a perfect pocket chronometer, which the
reporter had not forgotten to wind up carefully every day.

As to the engineer’s watch, it, of course, had stopped during the time
which he had passed on the downs.

The engineer now wound it up, and ascertaining by the height of the sun
that it must be about nine o’clock in the morning, he put his watch at
that hour.

“No, my dear Spilett, wait. You have kept the Richmond time, have you
not?”

“Yes, Cyrus.”

“Consequently, your watch is set by the meridian of that town, which is
almost that of Washington?”

“Undoubtedly.”

“Very well, keep it thus. Content yourself with winding it up very,
exactly, but do not touch the hands. This may be of use to us.

“What will be the good of that?” thought the sailor.

They ate, and so heartily, that the store of game and almonds was
totally exhausted. But Pencroft was not at all uneasy, they would supply
themselves on the way. Top, whose share had been very much to his taste,
would know how to find some fresh game among the brushwood. Moreover,
the sailor thought of simply asking the engineer to manufacture some
powder and one or two fowling-pieces; he supposed there would be no
difficulty in that.

On leaving the plateau, the captain proposed to his companions to return
to the Chimneys by a new way. He wished to reconnoiter Lake Grant, so
magnificently framed in trees. They therefore followed the crest of one
of the spurs, between which the creek that supplied the lake probably
had its source. In talking, the settlers already employed the names
which they had just chosen, which singularly facilitated the exchange
of their ideas. Herbert and Pencroft--the one young and the other very
boyish--were enchanted, and while walking, the sailor said,

“Hey, Herbert! how capital it sounds! It will be impossible to lose
ourselves, my boy, since, whether we follow the way to Lake Grant, or
whether we join the Mercy through the woods of the Far West, we shall be
certain to arrive at Prospect Heights, and, consequently, at Union Bay!”

It had been agreed, that without forming a compact band, the settlers
should not stray away from each other. It was very certain that the
thick forests of the island were inhabited by dangerous animals, and it
was prudent to be on their guard. In general, Pencroft, Herbert, and Neb
walked first, preceded by Top, who poked his nose into every bush. The
reporter and the engineer went together, Gideon Spilett ready to note
every incident, the engineer silent for the most part, and only stepping
aside to pick up one thing or another, a mineral or vegetable substance,
which he put into his pocket, without making any remark.

“What can he be picking up?” muttered Pencroft. “I have looked in vain
for anything that’s worth the trouble of stooping for.”

Towards ten o’clock the little band descended the last declivities of
Mount Franklin. As yet the ground was scantily strewn with bushes and
trees. They were walking over yellowish calcinated earth, forming a
plain of nearly a mile long, which extended to the edge of the wood.
Great blocks of that basalt, which, according to Bischof, takes three
hundred and fifty millions of years to cool, strewed the plain, very
confused in some places. However, there were here no traces of lava,
which was spread more particularly over the northern slopes.

Cyrus Harding expected to reach, without incident, the course of the
creek, which he supposed flowed under the trees at the border of the
plain, when he saw Herbert running hastily back, while Neb and the
sailor were hiding behind the rocks.

“What’s the matter, my boy?” asked Spilett.

“Smoke,” replied Herbert. “We have seen smoke among the rocks, a hundred
paces from us.”

“Men in this place?” cried the reporter.

“We must avoid showing ourselves before knowing with whom we have to
deal,” replied Cyrus Harding. “I trust that there are no natives on this
island; I dread them more than anything else. Where is Top?”

“Top is on before.”

“And he doesn’t bark?”

“No.”

“That is strange. However, we must try to call him back.”

In a few moments, the engineer, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert had rejoined
their two companions, and like them, they kept out of sight behind the
heaps of basalt.

From thence they clearly saw smoke of a yellowish color rising in the
air.

Top was recalled by a slight whistle from his master, and the latter,
signing to his companions to wait for him, glided away among the
rocks. The colonists, motionless, anxiously awaited the result of this
exploration, when a shout from the engineer made them hasten forward.
They soon joined him, and were at once struck with a disagreeable odor
which impregnated the atmosphere.

The odor, easily recognized, was enough for the engineer to guess what
the smoke was which at first, not without cause, had startled him.

“This fire,” said he, “or rather, this smoke is produced by nature alone.
There is a sulphur spring there, which will cure all our sore throats.”

“Captain!” cried Pencroft. “What a pity that I haven’t got a cold!”

The settlers then directed their steps towards the place from which the
smoke escaped. They there saw a sulphur spring which flowed abundantly
between the rocks, and its waters discharged a strong sulphuric acid
odor, after having absorbed the oxygen of the air.

Cyrus Harding, dipping in his hand, felt the water oily to the touch.
He tasted it and found it rather sweet. As to its temperature, that he
estimated at ninety-five degrees Fahrenheit. Herbert having asked on
what he based this calculation,--

“Its quite simple, my boy,” said he, “for, in plunging my hand into the
water, I felt no sensation either of heat or cold. Therefore it has the
same temperature as the human body, which is about ninety-five degrees.”

The sulphur spring not being of any actual use to the settlers, they
proceeded towards the thick border of the forest, which began some
hundred paces off.

There, as they had conjectured, the waters of the stream flowed clear
and limpid between high banks of red earth, the color of which betrayed
the presence of oxide of iron. From this color, the name of Red Creek
was immediately given to the watercourse.

It was only a large stream, deep and clear, formed of the mountain
water, which, half river, half torrent, here rippling peacefully over
the sand, there falling against the rocks or dashing down in a cascade,
ran towards the lake, over a distance of a mile and a half, its breadth
varying from thirty to forty feet. Its waters were sweet, and it was
supposed that those of the lake were so also. A fortunate circumstance,
in the event of their finding on its borders a more suitable dwelling
than the Chimneys.

As to the trees, which some hundred feet downwards shaded the banks of
the creek, they belonged, for the most part, to the species which abound
in the temperate zone of America and Tasmania, and no longer to those
coniferae observed in that portion of the island already explored
to some miles from Prospect Heights. At this time of the year, the
commencement of the month of April, which represents the month of
October, in this hemisphere, that is, the beginning of autumn, they
were still in full leaf. They consisted principally of casuarinas and
eucalypti, some of which next year would yield a sweet manna, similar to
the manna of the East. Clumps of Australian cedars rose on the sloping
banks, which were also covered with the high grass called “tussac” in
New Holland; but the cocoanut, so abundant in the archipelagoes of the
Pacific, seemed to be wanting in the island, the latitude, doubtless,
being too low.

“What a pity!” said Herbert, “such a useful tree, and which has such
beautiful nuts!”

As to the birds, they swarmed among the scanty branches of the eucalypti
and casuarinas, which did not hinder the display of their wings.
Black, white, or gray cockatoos, paroquets, with plumage of all colors,
kingfishers of a sparkling green and crowned with red, blue lories,
and various other birds appeared on all sides, as through a prism,
fluttering about and producing a deafening clamor. Suddenly, a strange
concert of discordant voices resounded in the midst of a thicket. The
settlers heard successively the song of birds, the cry of quadrupeds,
and a sort of clacking which they might have believed to have escaped
from the lips of a native. Neb and Herbert rushed towards the bush,
forgetting even the most elementary principles of prudence. Happily,
they found there, neither a formidable wild beast nor a dangerous
native, but merely half a dozen mocking and singing birds, known as
mountain pheasants. A few skillful blows from a stick soon put an end to
their concert, and procured excellent food for the evening’s dinner.

Herbert also discovered some magnificent pigeons with bronzed wings,
some superbly crested, others draped in green, like their congeners at
Port-Macquarie; but it was impossible to reach them, or the crows and
magpies which flew away in flocks.

A charge of small shot would have made great slaughter among these
birds, but the hunters were still limited to sticks and stones, and
these primitive weapons proved very insufficient.

Their insufficiency was still more clearly shown when a troop of
quadrupeds, jumping, bounding, making leaps of thirty feet, regular
flying mammiferae, fled over the thickets, so quickly and at such a
height, that one would have thought that they passed from one tree to
another like squirrels.

“Kangaroos!” cried Herbert.

“Are they good to eat?” asked Pencroft.

“Stewed,” replied the reporter, “their flesh is equal to the best
venison!--”

Gideon Spilett had not finished this exciting sentence when the sailor,
followed by Neb and Herbert, darted on the kangaroos tracks. Cyrus
Harding called them back in vain. But it was in vain too for the hunters
to pursue such agile game, which went bounding away like balls. After a
chase of five minutes, they lost their breath, and at the same time all
sight of the creatures, which disappeared in the wood. Top was not more
successful than his masters.

“Captain,” said Pencroft, when the engineer and the reporter had
rejoined them, “Captain, you see quite well we can’t get on unless we
make a few guns. Will that be possible?”

“Perhaps,” replied the engineer, “but we will begin by first
manufacturing some bows and arrows, and I don’t doubt that you will
become as clever in the use of them as the Australian hunters.”

“Bows and arrows!” said Pencroft scornfully. “That’s all very well for
children!”

“Don’t be proud, friend Pencroft,” replied the reporter. “Bows and
arrows were sufficient for centuries to stain the earth with blood.
Powder is but a thing of yesterday, and war is as old as the human
race--unhappily.”

“Faith, that’s true, Mr. Spilett,” replied the sailor, “and I always
speak too quickly. You must excuse me!”

Meanwhile, Herbert constant to his favorite science, Natural History,
reverted to the kangaroos, saying,--

“Besides, we had to deal just now with the species which is most
difficult to catch. They were giants with long gray fur; but if I am not
mistaken, there exist black and red kangaroos, rock kangaroos, and rat
kangaroos, which are more easy to get hold of. It is reckoned that there
are about a dozen species.”

“Herbert,” replied the sailor sententiously, “there is only one species
of kangaroos to me, that is ‘kangaroo on the spit,’ and it’s just the
one we haven’t got this evening!”

They could not help laughing at Master Pencroft’s new classification.
The honest sailor did not hide his regret at being reduced for dinner to
the singing pheasants, but fortune once more showed itself obliging to
him.

In fact, Top, who felt that his interest was concerned went and ferreted
everywhere with an instinct doubled by a ferocious appetite. It was even
probable that if some piece of game did fall into his clutches, none
would be left for the hunters, if Top was hunting on his own account;
but Neb watched him and he did well.

Towards three o’clock the dog disappeared in the brushwood and gruntings
showed that he was engaged in a struggle with some animal. Neb rushed
after him, and soon saw Top eagerly devouring a quadruped, which ten
seconds later would have been past recognizing in Top’s stomach. But
fortunately the dog had fallen upon a brood, and besides the victim he
was devouring, two other rodents--the animals in question belonged to
that order--lay strangled on the turf.

Neb reappeared triumphantly holding one of the rodents in each hand.
Their size exceeded that of a rabbit, their hair was yellow, mingled
with green spots, and they had the merest rudiments of tails.

The citizens of the Union were at no loss for the right name of these
rodents. They were maras, a sort of agouti, a little larger than their
congeners of tropical countries, regular American rabbits, with long
ears, jaws armed on each side with five molars, which distinguish the
agouti.

“Hurrah!” cried Pencroft, “the roast has arrived! and now we can go
home.”

The walk, interrupted for an instant, was resumed. The limpid waters of
the Red Creek flowed under an arch of casuarinas, banksias, and gigantic
gum-trees. Superb lilacs rose to a height of twenty feet. Other
arborescent species, unknown to the young naturalist, bent over the
stream, which could be heard murmuring beneath the bowers of verdure.

Meanwhile the stream grew much wider, and Cyrus Harding supposed that
they would soon reach its mouth. In fact, on emerging from beneath a
thick clump of beautiful trees, it suddenly appeared before their eyes.

The explorers had arrived on the western shore of Lake Grant. The place
was well worth looking at. This extent of water, of a circumference of
nearly seven miles and an area of two hundred and fifty acres, reposed
in a border of diversified trees. Towards the east, through a curtain
of verdure, picturesquely raised in some places, sparkled an horizon of
sea. The lake was curved at the north, which contrasted with the sharp
outline of its lower part. Numerous aquatic birds frequented the shores
of this little Ontario, in which the thousand isles of its American
namesake were represented by a rock which emerged from its surface, some
hundred feet from the southern shore. There lived in harmony several
couples of kingfishers perched on a stone, grave, motionless, watching
for fish, then darting down, they plunged in with a sharp cry, and
reappeared with their prey in their beaks. On the shores and on the
islets, strutted wild ducks, pelicans, water-hens, red-beaks, philedons,
furnished with a tongue like a brush, and one or two specimens of the
splendid menura, the tail of which expands gracefully like a lyre.

As to the water of the lake, it was sweet, limpid, rather dark, and from
certain bubblings, and the concentric circles which crossed each other
on the surface, it could not be doubted that it abounded in fish.

“This lake is really beautiful!” said Gideon Spilett. “We could live on
its borders!”

“We will live there!” replied Harding.

The settlers, wishing to return to the Chimneys by the shortest way,
descended towards the angle formed on the south by the junction of
the lake’s bank. It was not without difficulty that they broke a path
through the thickets and brushwood which had never been put aside by the
hand of men, and they thus went towards the shore, so as to arrive at
the north of Prospect Heights. Two miles were cleared in this direction,
and then, after they had passed the last curtain of trees, appeared the
plateau, carpeted with thick turf, and beyond that the infinite sea.

To return to the Chimneys, it was enough to cross the plateau obliquely
for the space of a mile, and then to descend to the elbow formed by
the first detour of the Mercy. But the engineer desired to know how
and where the overplus of the water from the lake escaped, and the
exploration was prolonged under the trees for a mile and a half towards
the north. It was most probable that an overfall existed somewhere, and
doubtless through a cleft in the granite. This lake was only, in short,
an immense center basin, which was filled by degrees by the creek, and
its waters must necessarily pass to the sea by some fall. If it was so,
the engineer thought that it might perhaps be possible to utilize this
fall and borrow its power, actually lost without profit to any one.
They continued then to follow the shores of Lake Grant by climbing the
plateau; but, after having gone a mile in this direction, Cyrus Harding
had not been able to discover the overfall, which, however, must exist
somewhere.

It was then half-past four. In order to prepare for dinner it was
necessary that the settlers should return to their dwelling. The little
band retraced their steps, therefore, and by the left bank of the Mercy,
Cyrus Harding and his companions arrived at the Chimneys.

The fire was lighted, and Neb and Pencroft, on whom the functions of
cooks naturally devolved, to the one in his quality of Negro, to the
other in that of sailor, quickly prepared some broiled agouti, to which
they did great justice.

The repast at length terminated; at the moment when each one was about
to give himself up to sleep, Cyrus Harding drew from his pocket little
specimens of different sorts of minerals, and just said,--

“My friends, this is iron mineral, this a pyrite, this is clay, this is
lime, and this is coal. Nature gives us these things. It is our business
to make a right use of them. To-morrow we will commence operations.”



Chapter 13

“Well, captain, where are we going to begin?” asked Pencroft next
morning of the engineer.

“At the beginning,” replied Cyrus Harding.

And in fact, the settlers were compelled to begin “at the very
beginning.” They did not possess even the tools necessary for making
tools, and they were not even in the condition of nature, who, “having
time, husbands her strength.” They had no time, since they had to
provide for the immediate wants of their existence, and though,
profiting by acquired experience, they had nothing to invent, still they
had everything to make; their iron and their steel were as yet only in
the state of minerals, their earthenware in the state of clay, their
linen and their clothes in the state of textile material.

It must be said, however, that the settlers were “men” in the complete
and higher sense of the word. The engineer Harding could not have been
seconded by more intelligent companions, nor with more devotion and
zeal. He had tried them. He knew their abilities.

Gideon Spilett, a talented reporter, having learned everything so as to
be able to speak of everything, would contribute largely with his head
and hands to the colonization of the island. He would not draw back from
any task: a determined sportsman, he would make a business of what till
then had only been a pleasure to him.

Herbert, a gallant boy, already remarkably well informed in the natural
sciences, would render greater service to the common cause.

Neb was devotion personified. Clever, intelligent, indefatigable,
robust, with iron health, he knew a little about the work of the forge,
and could not fail to be very useful in the colony.

As to Pencroft, he had sailed over every sea, a carpenter in the
dockyards in Brooklyn, assistant tailor in the vessels of the state,
gardener, cultivator, during his holidays, etc., and like all seamen,
fit for anything, he knew how to do everything.

It would have been difficult to unite five men, better fitted to
struggle against fate, more certain to triumph over it.

“At the beginning,” Cyrus Harding had said. Now this beginning of which
the engineer spoke was the construction of an apparatus which would
serve to transform the natural substances. The part which heat plays in
these transformations is known. Now fuel, wood or coal, was ready for
immediate use, an oven must be built to use it.

“What is this oven for?” asked Pencroft.

“To make the pottery which we have need of,” replied Harding.

“And of what shall we make the oven?”

“With bricks.”

“And the bricks?”

“With clay. Let us start, my friends. To save trouble, we will establish
our manufactory at the place of production. Neb will bring provisions,
and there will be no lack of fire to cook the food.”

“No,” replied the reporter; “but if there is a lack of food for want of
instruments for the chase?”

“Ah, if we only had a knife!” cried the sailor.

“Well?” asked Cyrus Harding.

“Well! I would soon make a bow and arrows, and then there could be
plenty of game in the larder!”

“Yes, a knife, a sharp blade.” said the engineer, as if he was speaking
to himself.

At this moment his eyes fell upon Top, who was running about on the
shore. Suddenly Harding’s face became animated.

“Top, here,” said he.

The dog came at his master’s call. The latter took Top’s head between
his hands, and unfastening the collar which the animal wore round his
neck, he broke it in two, saying,--

“There are two knives, Pencroft!”

Two hurrahs from the sailor was the reply. Top’s collar was made of a
thin piece of tempered steel. They had only to sharpen it on a piece of
sandstone, then to raise the edge on a finer stone. Now sandstone was
abundant on the beach, and two hours after the stock of tools in the
colony consisted of two sharp blades, which were easily fixed in solid
handles.

The production of these their first tools was hailed as a triumph. It
was indeed a valuable result of their labor, and a very opportune one.
They set out.

Cyrus Harding proposed that they should return to the western shore of
the lake, where the day before he had noticed the clayey ground of which
he possessed a specimen. They therefore followed the bank of the Mercy,
traversed Prospect Heights, and after a walk of five miles or more they
reached a glade, situated two hundred feet from Lake Grant.

On the way Herbert had discovered a tree, the branches of which the
Indians of South America employ for making their bows. It was the
crejimba, of the palm family, which does not bear edible fruit. Long
straight branches were cut, the leaves stripped off; it was shaped,
stronger in the middle, more slender at the extremities, and nothing
remained to be done but to find a plant fit to make the bow-string.
This was the “hibiscus heterophyllus,” which furnishes fibers of such
remarkable tenacity that they have been compared to the tendons of
animals. Pencroft thus obtained bows of tolerable strength, for which he
only wanted arrows. These were easily made with straight stiff branches,
without knots, but the points with which they must be armed, that is
to say, a substance to serve in lieu of iron, could not be met with so
easily. But Pencroft said, that having done his part of the work, chance
would do the rest.

The settlers arrived on the ground which had been discovered the day
before. Being composed of the sort of clay which is used for making
bricks and tiles, it was very useful for the work in question. There was
no great difficulty in it. It was enough to scour the clay with sand,
then to mold the bricks and bake them by the heat of a wood fire.

Generally bricks are formed in molds, but the engineer contented himself
with making them by hand. All that day and the day following were
employed in this work. The clay, soaked in water, was mixed by the feet
and hands of the manipulators, and then divided into pieces of equal
size. A practiced workman can make, without a machine, about ten
thousand bricks in twelve hours; but in their two days work the five
brickmakers on Lincoln Island had not made more than three thousand,
which were ranged near each other, until the time when their complete
desiccation would permit them to be used in building the oven, that is
to say, in three or four days.

It was on the 2nd of April that Harding had employed himself in fixing
the orientation of the island, or, in other words, the precise spot
where the sun rose. The day before he had noted exactly the hour when
the sun disappeared beneath the horizon, making allowance for the
refraction. This morning he noted, no less exactly, the hour at which
it reappeared. Between this setting and rising twelve hours, twenty-four
minutes passed. Then, six hours, twelve minutes after its rising, the
sun on this day would exactly pass the meridian and the point of the sky
which it occupied at this moment would be the north. At the said hour,
Cyrus marked this point, and putting in a line with the sun two trees
which would serve him for marks, he thus obtained an invariable meridian
for his ulterior operations.

The settlers employed the two days before the oven was built in
collecting fuel. Branches were cut all round the glade, and they picked
up all the fallen wood under the trees. They were also able to hunt with
greater success, since Pencroft now possessed some dozen arrows armed
with sharp points. It was Top who had furnished these points, by bringing
in a porcupine, rather inferior eating, but of great value, thanks to
the quills with which it bristled. These quills were fixed firmly at the
ends of the arrows, the flight of which was made more certain by some
cockatoos’ feathers. The reporter and Herbert soon became very skilful
archers. Game of all sorts in consequence abounded at the Chimneys,
capybaras, pigeons, agouties, grouse, etc. The greater part of these
animals were killed in the part of the forest on the left bank of the
Mercy, to which they gave the name of Jacamar Wood, in remembrance of
the bird which Pencroft and Herbert had pursued when on their first
exploration.

This game was eaten fresh, but they preserved some capybara hams, by
smoking them above a fire of green wood, after having perfumed them with
sweet-smelling leaves. However, this food, although very strengthening,
was always roast upon roast, and the party would have been delighted
to hear some soup bubbling on the hearth, but they must wait till a pot
could be made, and, consequently, till the oven was built.

During these excursions, which were not extended far from the
brick-field, the hunters could discern the recent passage of animals of
a large size, armed with powerful claws, but they could not recognize
the species. Cyrus Harding advised them to be very careful, as the
forest probably enclosed many dangerous beasts.

And he did right. Indeed, Gideon Spilett and Herbert one day saw an
animal which resembled a jaguar. Happily the creature did not attack
them, or they might not have escaped without a severe wound. As soon
as he could get a regular weapon, that is to say, one of the guns which
Pencroft begged for, Gideon Spilett resolved to make desperate war
against the ferocious beasts, and exterminate them from the island.

The Chimneys during these few days was not made more comfortable, for
the engineer hoped to discover, or build if necessary, a more convenient
dwelling. They contented themselves with spreading moss and dry leaves
on the sand of the passages, and on these primitive couches the tired
workers slept soundly.

They also reckoned the days they had passed on Lincoln Island, and from
that time kept a regular account. The 5th of April, which was Wednesday,
was twelve days from the time when the wind threw the castaways on this
shore.

On the 6th of April, at daybreak, the engineer and his companions were
collected in the glade, at the place where they were going to perform
the operation of baking the bricks. Naturally this had to be in the open
air, and not in a kiln, or rather, the agglomeration of bricks made an
enormous kiln, which would bake itself. The fuel, made of well-prepared
fagots, was laid on the ground and surrounded with several rows of dried
bricks, which soon formed an enormous cube, to the exterior of which
they contrived air-holes. The work lasted all day, and it was not till
the evening that they set fire to the fagots. No one slept that night,
all watching carefully to keep up the fire.

The operation lasted forty-eight hours, and succeeded perfectly. It then
became necessary to leave the smoking mass to cool, and during this time
Neb and Pencroft, guided by Cyrus Harding, brought, on a hurdle made of
interlaced branches, loads of carbonate of lime and common stones,
which were very abundant, to the north of the lake. These stones, when
decomposed by heat, made a very strong quicklime, greatly increased by
slacking, at least as pure as if it had been produced by the calcination
of chalk or marble. Mixed with sand the lime made excellent mortar.

The result of these different works was, that, on the 9th of April,
the engineer had at his disposal a quantity of prepared lime and some
thousands of bricks.

Without losing an instant, therefore, they began the construction of
a kiln to bake the pottery, which was indispensable for their domestic
use. They succeeded without much difficulty. Five days after, the kiln
was supplied with coal, which the engineer had discovered lying open to
the sky towards the mouth of the Red Creek, and the first smoke escaped
from a chimney twenty feet high. The glade was transformed into a
manufactory, and Pencroft was not far wrong in believing that from this
kiln would issue all the products of modern industry.

In the meantime what the settlers first manufactured was a common
pottery in which to cook their food. The chief material was clay, to
which Harding added a little lime and quartz. This paste made regular
“pipe-clay,” with which they manufactured bowls, cups molded on stones
of a proper size, great jars and pots to hold water, etc. The shape of
these objects was clumsy and defective, but after they had been baked
in a high temperature, the kitchen of the Chimneys was provided with a
number of utensils, as precious to the settlers as the most beautifully
enameled china. We must mention here that Pencroft, desirous to know if
the clay thus prepared was worthy of its name of pipe-clay, made some
large pipes, which he thought charming, but for which, alas! he had no
tobacco, and that was a great privation to Pencroft. “But tobacco
will come, like everything else!” he repeated, in a burst of absolute
confidence.

This work lasted till the 15th of April, and the time was well employed.
The settlers, having become potters, made nothing but pottery. When
it suited Cyrus Harding to change them into smiths, they would become
smiths. But the next day being Sunday, and also Easter Sunday, all
agreed to sanctify the day by rest. These Americans were religious men,
scrupulous observers of the precepts of the Bible, and their situation
could not but develop sentiments of confidence towards the Author of all
things.

On the evening of the 15th of April they returned to the Chimneys,
carrying with them the pottery, the furnace being extinguished until
they could put it to a new use. Their return was marked by a fortunate
incident; the engineer discovered a substance which replaced tinder.
It is known that a spongy, velvety flesh is procured from a certain
mushroom of the genus polyporous. Properly prepared, it is extremely
inflammable, especially when it has been previously saturated with
gunpowder, or boiled in a solution of nitrate or chlorate of potash.
But, till then, they had not found any of these polypores or even any of
the morels which could replace them. On this day, the engineer, seeing
a plant belonging to the wormwood genus, the principal species of which
are absinthe, balm-mint, tarragon, etc., gathered several tufts, and,
presenting them to the sailor, said,--

“Here, Pencroft, this will please you.”

Pencroft looked attentively at the plant, covered with long silky hair,
the leaves being clothed with soft down.

“What’s that, captain?” asked Pencroft. “Is it tobacco?”

“No,” replied Harding, “it is wormwood; Chinese wormwood to the learned,
but to us it will be tinder.”

When the wormwood was properly dried it provided them with a very
inflammable substance, especially afterwards when the engineer had
impregnated it with nitrate of potash, of which the island possessed
several beds, and which is in truth saltpeter.

The colonists had a good supper that evening. Neb prepared some agouti
soup, a smoked capybara ham, to which was added the boiled tubercules of
the “caladium macrorhizum,” an herbaceous plant of the arum family.
They had an excellent taste, and were very nutritious, being something
similar to the substance which is sold in England under the name of
“Portland sago”; they were also a good substitute for bread, which the
settlers in Lincoln Island did not yet possess.

When supper was finished, before sleeping, Harding and his companions
went to take the air on the beach. It was eight o’clock in the evening;
the night was magnificent. The moon, which had been full five days
before, had not yet risen, but the horizon was already silvered by those
soft, pale shades which might be called the dawn of the moon. At the
southern zenith glittered the circumpolar constellations, and above all
the Southern Cross, which some days before the engineer had greeted on
the summit of Mount Franklin.

Cyrus Harding gazed for some time at this splendid constellation, which
has at its summit and at its base two stars of the first magnitude, at
its left arm a star of the second, and at its right arm a star of the
third magnitude.

Then, after some minutes thought--

“Herbert,” he asked of the lad, “is not this the 15th of April?”

“Yes, captain,” replied Herbert.

“Well, if I am not mistaken, to-morrow will be one of the four days in
the year in which the real time is identical with average time; that
is to say, my boy, that to-morrow, to within some seconds, the sun will
pass the meridian just at midday by the clocks. If the weather is fine
I think that I shall obtain the longitude of the island with an
approximation of some degrees.”

“Without instruments, without sextant?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“Yes,” replied the engineer. “Also, since the night is clear, I will
try, this very evening, to obtain our latitude by calculating the
height of the Southern Cross, that is, from the southern pole above the
horizon. You understand, my friends, that before undertaking the work
of installation in earnest it is not enough to have found out that this
land is an island; we must, as nearly as possible, know at what distance
it is situated, either from the American continent or Australia, or from
the principal archipelagoes of the Pacific.”

“In fact,” said the reporter, “instead of building a house it would
be more important to build a boat, if by chance we are not more than a
hundred miles from an inhabited coast.”

“That is why,” returned Harding, “I am going to try this evening to
calculate the latitude of Lincoln Island, and to-morrow, at midday, I
will try to calculate the longitude.”

If the engineer had possessed a sextant, an apparatus with which the
angular distance of objects can be measured with great precision, there
would have been no difficulty in the operation. This evening by the
height of the pole, the next day by the passing of the sun at the
meridian, he would obtain the position of the island. But as they had
not one he would have to supply the deficiency.

Harding then entered the Chimneys. By the light of the fire he cut two
little flat rulers, which he joined together at one end so as to form
a pair of compasses, whose legs could separate or come together. The
fastening was fixed with a strong acacia thorn which was found in the
wood pile. This instrument finished, the engineer returned to the beach,
but as it was necessary to take the height of the pole from above a
clear horizon, that is, a sea horizon, and as Claw Cape hid the southern
horizon, he was obliged to look for a more suitable station. The best
would evidently have been the shore exposed directly to the south; but
the Mercy would have to be crossed, and that was a difficulty. Harding
resolved, in consequence, to make his observation from Prospect Heights,
taking into consideration its height above the level of the sea--a
height which he intended to calculate next day by a simple process of
elementary geometry.

The settlers, therefore, went to the plateau, ascending the left bank of
the Mercy, and placed themselves on the edge which looked northwest and
southeast, that is, above the curiously-shaped rocks which bordered the
river.

This part of the plateau commanded the heights of the left bank, which
sloped away to the extremity of Claw Cape, and to the southern side of
the island. No obstacle intercepted their gaze, which swept the horizon
in a semi-circle from the cape to Reptile End. To the south the horizon,
lighted by the first rays of the moon, was very clearly defined against
the sky.

At this moment the Southern Cross presented itself to the observer in an
inverted position, the star Alpha marking its base, which is nearer to
the southern pole.

This constellation is not situated as near to the antarctic pole as the
Polar Star is to the arctic pole. The star Alpha is about twenty-seven
degrees from it, but Cyrus Harding knew this and made allowance for
it in his calculation. He took care also to observe the moment when it
passed the meridian below the pole, which would simplify the operation.

Cyrus Harding pointed one leg of the compasses to the horizon, the
other to Alpha, and the space between the two legs gave him the angular
distance which separated Alpha from the horizon. In order to fix the
angle obtained, he fastened with thorns the two pieces of wood on a
third placed transversely, so that their separation should be properly
maintained.

That done, there was only the angle to calculate by bringing back the
observation to the level of the sea, taking into consideration the
depression of the horizon, which would necessitate measuring the height
of the cliff. The value of this angle would give the height of Alpha,
and consequently that of the pole above the horizon, that is to say, the
latitude of the island, since the latitude of a point of the globe is
always equal to the height of the pole above the horizon of this point.

The calculations were left for the next day, and at ten o’clock every
one was sleeping soundly.



Chapter 14


The next day, the 16th of April, and Easter Sunday, the settlers issued
from the Chimneys at daybreak, and proceeded to wash their linen. The
engineer intended to manufacture soap as soon as he could procure the
necessary materials--soda or potash, fat or oil. The important question
of renewing their wardrobe would be treated of in the proper time and
place. At any rate their clothes would last at least six months longer,
for they were strong, and could resist the wear of manual labor. But
all would depend on the situation of the island with regard to inhabited
land. This would be settled to-day if the weather permitted.

The sun rising above a clear horizon, announced a magnificent day, one
of those beautiful autumn days which are like the last farewells of the
warm season.

It was now necessary to complete the observations of the evening before
by measuring the height of the cliff above the level of the sea.

“Shall you not need an instrument similar to the one which you used
yesterday?” said Herbert to the engineer.

“No, my boy,” replied the latter, “we are going to proceed differently,
but in as precise a way.”

Herbert, wishing to learn everything he could, followed the engineer to
the beach. Pencroft, Neb, and the reporter remained behind and occupied
themselves in different ways.

Cyrus Harding had provided himself with a straight stick, twelve feet
long, which he had measured as exactly as possible by comparing it with
his own height, which he knew to a hair. Herbert carried a plumb-line
which Harding had given him, that is to say, a simple stone fastened
to the end of a flexible fiber. Having reached a spot about twenty feet
from the edge of the beach, and nearly five hundred feet from the cliff,
which rose perpendicularly, Harding thrust the pole two feet into
the sand, and wedging it up carefully, he managed, by means of the
plumb-line, to erect it perpendicularly with the plane of the horizon.


That done, he retired the necessary distance, when, lying on the sand,
his eye glanced at the same time at the top of the pole and the crest of
the cliff. He carefully marked the place with a little stick.

Then addressing Herbert--“Do you know the first principles of geometry?”
 he asked.

“Slightly, captain,” replied Herbert, who did not wish to put himself
forward.

“You remember what are the properties of two similar triangles?”

“Yes,” replied Herbert; “their homologous sides are proportional.”

“Well, my boy, I have just constructed two similar right-angled
triangles; the first, the smallest, has for its sides the perpendicular
pole, the distance which separates the little stick from the foot of the
pole and my visual ray for hypothenuse; the second has for its sides
the perpendicular cliff, the height of which we wish to measure, the
distance which separates the little stick from the bottom of the
cliff, and my visual ray also forms its hypothenuse, which proves to be
prolongation of that of the first triangle.”

“Ah, captain, I understand!” cried Herbert. “As the distance from the
stick to the pole is to the distance from the stick to the base of the
cliff, so is the height of the pole to the height of the cliff.”

“Just so, Herbert,” replied the engineer; “and when we have measured the
two first distances, knowing the height of the pole, we shall only have
a sum in proportion to do, which will give us the height of the cliff,
and will save us the trouble of measuring it directly.”

The two horizontal distances were found out by means of the pole, whose
length above the sand was exactly ten feet.

The first distance was fifteen feet between the stick and the place
where the pole was thrust into the sand.

The second distance between the stick and the bottom of the cliff was
five hundred feet.

These measurements finished, Cyrus Harding and the lad returned to the
Chimneys.

The engineer then took a flat stone which he had brought back from one
of his previous excursions, a sort of slate, on which it was easy
to trace figures with a sharp shell. He then proved the following
proportions:--


          15:500::10:x

         500 x 10 = 5000

        5000 / 15 = 333.3


From which it was proved that the granite cliff measured 333 feet in
height.

Cyrus Harding then took the instrument which he had made the evening
before, the space between its two legs giving the angular distance
between the star Alpha and the horizon. He measured, very exactly, the
opening of this angle on a circumference which he divided into 360 equal
parts. Now, this angle by adding to it the twenty-seven degrees which
separated Alpha from the antarctic pole, and by reducing to the level of
the sea the height of the cliff on which the observation had been made,
was found to be fifty-three degrees. These fifty-three degrees being
subtracted from ninety degrees--the distance from the pole to the
equator--there remained thirty-seven degrees. Cyrus Harding concluded,
therefore, that Lincoln Island was situated on the thirty-seventh degree
of the southern latitude, or taking into consideration through the
imperfection of the performance, an error of five degrees, that it must
be situated between the thirty-fifth and the fortieth parallel.

There was only the longitude to be obtained, and the position of the
island would be determined, The engineer hoped to attempt this the same
day, at twelve o’clock, at which moment the sun would pass the meridian.

It was decided that Sunday should be spent in a walk, or rather an
exploring expedition, to that side of the island between the north of
the lake and Shark Gulf, and if there was time they would push their
discoveries to the northern side of Cape South Mandible. They would
breakfast on the downs, and not return till evening.

At half-past eight the little band was following the edge of the
channel. On the other side, on Safety Islet, numerous birds were gravely
strutting. They were divers, easily recognized by their cry, which much
resembles the braying of a donkey. Pencroft only considered them in
an eatable point of view, and learnt with some satisfaction that their
flesh, though blackish, is not bad food.

Great amphibious creatures could also be seen crawling on the sand;
seals, doubtless, who appeared to have chosen the islet for a place of
refuge. It was impossible to think of those animals in an alimentary
point of view, for their oily flesh is detestable; however, Cyrus
Harding observed them attentively, and without making known his idea, he
announced to his companions that very soon they would pay a visit to the
islet. The beach was strewn with innumerable shells, some of which would
have rejoiced the heart of a conchologist; there were, among others, the
phasianella, the terebratual, etc. But what would be of more use, was
the discovery, by Neb, at low tide, of a large oysterbed among the
rocks, nearly five miles from the Chimneys.

“Neb will not have lost his day,” cried Pencroft, looking at the
spacious oyster-bed.

“It is really a fortunate discovery,” said the reporter, “and as it is
said that each oyster produces yearly from fifty to sixty thousand eggs,
we shall have an inexhaustible supply there.”

“Only I believe that the oyster is not very nourishing,” said Herbert.

“No,” replied Harding. “The oyster contains very little nitrogen, and
if a man lived exclusively on them, he would have to eat not less than
fifteen to sixteen dozen a day.”

“Capital!” replied Pencroft. “We might swallow dozens and dozens without
exhausting the bed. Shall we take some for breakfast?”

And without waiting for a reply to this proposal, knowing that it would
be approved of, the sailor and Neb detached a quantity of the molluscs.
They put them in a sort of net of hibiscus fiber, which Neb had
manufactured, and which already contained food; they then continued to
climb the coast between the downs and the sea.

From time to time Harding consulted his watch, so as to be prepared in
time for the solar observation, which had to be made exactly at midday.

All that part of the island was very barren as far as the point
which closed Union Bay, and which had received the name of Cape South
Mandible. Nothing could be seen there but sand and shells, mingled with
debris of lava. A few sea-birds frequented this desolate coast, gulls,
great albatrosses, as well as wild duck, for which Pencroft had a great
fancy. He tried to knock some over with an arrow, but without result,
for they seldom perched, and he could not hit them on the wing.

This led the sailor to repeat to the engineer,--

“You see, captain, so long as we have not one or two fowling-pieces, we
shall never get anything!”

“Doubtless, Pencroft,” replied the reporter, “but it depends on you.
Procure us some iron for the barrels, steel for the hammers, saltpeter.
coal and sulphur for powder, mercury and nitric acid for the fulminate,
and lead for the shot, and the captain will make us first-rate guns.”

“Oh!” replied the engineer, “we might, no doubt, find all these
substances on the island, but a gun is a delicate instrument, and needs
very particular tools. However, we shall see later!”

“Why,” cried Pencroft, “were we obliged to throw overboard all the
weapons we had with us in the car, all our implements, even our
pocket-knives?”

“But if we had not thrown them away, Pencroft, the balloon would have
thrown us to the bottom of the sea!” said Herbert.

“What you say is true, my boy,” replied the sailor.

Then passing to another idea,--“Think,” said he, “how astounded Jonathan
Forster and his companions must have been when, next morning, they found
the place empty, and the machine flown away!”

“I am utterly indifferent about knowing what they may have thought,”
 said the reporter.

“It was all my idea, that!” said Pencroft, with a satisfied air.

“A splendid idea, Pencroft!” replied Gideon Spilett, laughing, “and
which has placed us where we are.”

“I would rather be here than in the hands of the Southerners,” cried the
sailor, “especially since the captain has been kind enough to come and
join us again.”

“So would I, truly!” replied the reporter. “Besides, what do we want?
Nothing.”

“If that is not--everything!” replied Pencroft, laughing and shrugging
his shoulders. “But, some day or other, we shall find means of going
away!”

“Sooner, perhaps, than you imagine, my friends,” remarked the engineer,
“if Lincoln Island is but a medium distance from an inhabited island,
or from a continent. We shall know in an hour. I have not a map of the
Pacific, but my memory has preserved a very clear recollection of
its southern part. The latitude which I obtained yesterday placed New
Zealand to the west of Lincoln Island, and the coast of Chile to the
east. But between these two countries, there is a distance of at least
six thousand miles. It has, therefore, to be determined what point in
this great space the island occupies, and this the longitude will give
us presently, with a sufficient approximation, I hope.”

“Is not the archipelago of the Pomoutous the nearest point to us in
latitude?” asked Herbert.

“Yes,” replied the engineer, “but the distance which separates us from
it is more than twelve hundred miles.”

“And that way?” asked Neb, who followed the conversation with extreme
interest, pointing to the south.

“That way, nothing,” replied Pencroft.

“Nothing, indeed,” added the engineer.

“Well, Cyrus,” asked the reporter, “if Lincoln Island is not more than
two or three thousand miles from New Zealand or Chile?”

“Well,” replied the engineer, “instead of building a house we will build
a boat, and Master Pencroft shall be put in command--”

“Well then,” cried the sailor, “I am quite ready to be captain--as soon
as you can make a craft that’s able to keep at sea!”

“We shall do it, if it is necessary,” replied Cyrus Harding.

But while these men, who really hesitated at nothing, were talking,
the hour approached at which the observation was to be made. What Cyrus
Harding was to do to ascertain the passage of the sun at the meridian of
the island, without an instrument of any sort, Herbert could not guess.

The observers were then about six miles from the Chimneys, not far from
that part of the downs in which the engineer had been found after his
enigmatical preservation. They halted at this place and prepared for
breakfast, for it was half-past eleven. Herbert went for some fresh
water from a stream which ran near, and brought it back in a jug, which
Neb had provided.

During these preparations Harding arranged everything for his
astronomical observation. He chose a clear place on the shore, which
the ebbing tide had left perfectly level. This bed of fine sand was as
smooth as ice, not a grain out of place. It was of little importance
whether it was horizontal or not, and it did not matter much whether the
stick six feet high, which was planted there, rose perpendicularly. On
the contrary, the engineer inclined it towards the south, that is to
say, in the direction of the coast opposite to the sun, for it must
not be forgotten that the settlers in Lincoln Island, as the island was
situated in the Southern Hemisphere, saw the radiant planet describe its
diurnal arc above the northern, and not above the southern horizon.

Herbert now understood how the engineer was going to proceed to
ascertain the culmination of the sun, that is to say its passing the
meridian of the island or, in other words, determine due south. It was
by means of the shadow cast on the sand by the stick, a way which, for
want of an instrument, would give him a suitable approach to the result
which he wished to obtain.

In fact, the moment when this shadow would reach its minimum of length
would be exactly twelve o’clock, and it would be enough to watch the
extremity of the shadow, so as to ascertain the instant when, after
having successively diminished, it began to lengthen. By inclining his
stick to the side opposite to the sun, Cyrus Harding made the shadow
longer, and consequently its modifications would be more easily
ascertained. In fact, the longer the needle of a dial is, the more
easily can the movement of its point be followed. The shadow of the
stick was nothing but the needle of a dial. The moment had come, and
Cyrus Harding knelt on the sand, and with little wooden pegs, which he
stuck into the sand, he began to mark the successive diminutions of the
stick’s shadow. His companions, bending over him, watched the operation
with extreme interest. The reporter held his chronometer in his hand,
ready to tell the hour which it marked when the shadow would be at its
shortest. Moreover, as Cyrus Harding was working on the 16th of April,
the day on which the true and the average time are identical, the hour
given by Gideon Spilett would be the true hour then at Washington, which
would simplify the calculation. Meanwhile as the sun slowly advanced,
the shadow slowly diminished, and when it appeared to Cyrus Harding that
it was beginning to increase, he asked, “What o’clock is it?”

“One minute past five,” replied Gideon Spilett directly. They had now
only to calculate the operation. Nothing could be easier. It could be
seen that there existed, in round numbers, a difference of five hours
between the meridian of Washington and that of Lincoln Island, that is
to say, it was midday in Lincoln Island when it was already five o’clock
in the evening in Washington. Now the sun, in its apparent movement
round the earth, traverses one degree in four minutes, or fifteen
degrees an hour. Fifteen degrees multiplied by five hours give
seventy-five degrees.

Then, since Washington is 77deg 3’ 11” as much as to say seventy-seven
degrees counted from the meridian of Greenwich which the Americans
take for their starting-point for longitudes concurrently with the
English--it followed that the island must be situated seventy-seven and
seventy-five degrees west of the meridian of Greenwich, that is to say,
on the hundred and fifty-second degree of west longitude.

Cyrus Harding announced this result to his companions, and taking into
consideration errors of observation, as he had done for the latitude, he
believed he could positively affirm that the position of Lincoln Island
was between the thirty-fifth and the thirty-seventh parallel, and
between the hundred and fiftieth and the hundred and fifty-fifth
meridian to the west of the meridian of Greenwich.

The possible fault which he attributed to errors in the observation was,
it may be seen, of five degrees on both sides, which, at sixty miles
to a degree, would give an error of three hundred miles in latitude and
longitude for the exact position.

But this error would not influence the determination which it was
necessary to take. It was very evident that Lincoln Island was at such a
distance from every country or island that it would be too hazardous to
attempt to reach one in a frail boat.

In fact, this calculation placed it at least twelve hundred miles from
Tahiti and the islands of the archipelago of the Pomoutous, more than
eighteen hundred miles from New Zealand, and more than four thousand
five hundred miles from the American coast!

And when Cyrus Harding consulted his memory, he could not remember in
any way that such an island occupied, in that part of the Pacific, the
situation assigned to Lincoln Island.



Chapter 15

The next day, the 17th of April, the sailor’s first words were addressed
to Gideon Spilett.

“Well, sir,” he asked, “what shall we do to-day?”

“What the captain pleases,” replied the reporter.

Till then the engineer’s companions had been brickmakers and potters,
now they were to become metallurgists.

The day before, after breakfast, they had explored as far as the point
of Mandible Cape, seven miles distant from the Chimneys. There, the long
series of downs ended, and the soil had a volcanic appearance. There
were no longer high cliffs as at Prospect Heights, but a strange and
capricious border which surrounded the narrow gulf between the two
capes, formed of mineral matter, thrown up by the volcano. Arrived at
this point the settlers retraced their steps, and at nightfall entered
the Chimneys; but they did not sleep before the question of knowing
whether they could think of leaving Lincoln Island or not was definitely
settled.

The twelve hundred miles which separated the island from the Pomoutous
Island was a considerable distance. A boat could not cross it,
especially at the approach of the bad season. Pencroft had expressly
declared this. Now, to construct a simple boat even with the necessary
tools, was a difficult work, and the colonists not having tools they
must begin by making hammers, axes, adzes, saws, augers, planes, etc.,
which would take some time. It was decided, therefore, that they
would winter at Lincoln Island, and that they would look for a more
comfortable dwelling than the Chimneys, in which to pass the winter
months.

Before anything else could be done it was necessary to make the iron
ore, of which the engineer had observed some traces in the northwest
part of the island, fit for use by converting it either into iron or
into steel.

Metals are not generally found in the ground in a pure state. For the
most part they are combined with oxygen or sulphur. Such was the case
with the two specimens which Cyrus Harding had brought back, one of
magnetic iron, not carbonated, the other a pyrite, also called sulphuret
of iron. It was, therefore the first, the oxide of iron, which they must
reduce with coal, that is to say, get rid of the oxygen, to obtain it in
a pure state. This reduction is made by subjecting the ore with coal to
a high temperature, either by the rapid and easy Catalan method,
which has the advantage of transforming the ore into iron in a single
operation, or by the blast furnace, which first smelts the ore, then
changes it into iron, by carrying away the three to four per cent. of
coal, which is combined with it.

Now Cyrus Harding wanted iron, and he wished to obtain it as soon as
possible. The ore which he had picked up was in itself very pure and
rich. It was the oxydulous iron, which is found in confused masses of a
deep gray color; it gives a black dust, crystallized in the form of the
regular octahedron. Native lodestones consist of this ore, and iron
of the first quality is made in Europe from that with which Sweden and
Norway are so abundantly supplied. Not far from this vein was the vein
of coal already made use of by the settlers. The ingredients for the
manufacture being close together would greatly facilitate the treatment
of the ore. This is the cause of the wealth of the mines in Great
Britain, where the coal aids the manufacture of the metal extracted from
the same soil at the same time as itself.

“Then, captain,” said Pencroft, “we are going to work iron ore?”

“Yes, my friend,” replied the engineer, “and for that--something which
will please you--we must begin by having a seal hunt on the islet.”

“A seal hunt!” cried the sailor, turning towards Gideon Spilett. “Are
seals needed to make iron?”

“Since Cyrus has said so!” replied the reporter.

But the engineer had already left the Chimneys, and Pencroft prepared
for the seal hunt, without having received any other explanation.

Cyrus Harding, Herbert, Gideon Spilett, Neb, and the sailor were
soon collected on the shore, at a place where the channel left a ford
passable at low tide. The hunters could therefore traverse it without
getting wet higher than the knee.

Harding then put his foot on the islet for the first, and his companions
for the second time.

On their landing some hundreds of penguins looked fearlessly at them.
The hunters, armed with sticks, could have killed them easily, but they
were not guilty of such useless massacre, as it was important not to
frighten the seals, who were lying on the sand several cable lengths
off. They also respected certain innocent-looking birds, whose wings
were reduced to the state of stumps, spread out like fins, ornamented
with feathers of a scaly appearance. The settlers, therefore, prudently
advanced towards the north point, walking over ground riddled with
little holes, which formed nests for the sea-birds. Towards the
extremity of the islet appeared great black heads floating just above
the water, having exactly the appearance of rocks in motion.

These were the seals which were to be captured. It was necessary,
however, first to allow them to land, for with their close, short
hair, and their fusiform conformation, being excellent swimmers, it is
difficult to catch them in the sea, while on land their short, webbed
feet prevent their having more than a slow, waddling movement.

Pencroft knew the habits of these creatures, and he advised waiting till
they were stretched on the sand, when the sun, before long, would send
them to sleep. They must then manage to cut off their retreat and knock
them on the head.

The hunters, having concealed themselves behind the rocks, waited
silently.

An hour passed before the seals came to play on the sand. They could
count half a dozen. Pencroft and Herbert then went round the point of
the islet, so as to take them in the rear, and cut off their retreat.
During this time Cyrus Harding, Spilett, and Neb, crawling behind the
rocks, glided towards the future scene of combat.

All at once the tall figure of the sailor appeared. Pencroft shouted.
The engineer and his two companions threw themselves between the sea and
the seals. Two of the animals soon lay dead on the sand, but the rest
regained the sea in safety.

“Here are the seals required, captain!” said the sailor, advancing
towards the engineer.

“Capital,” replied Harding. “We will make bellows of them!”

“Bellows!” cried Pencroft. “Well! these are lucky seals!”

It was, in fact, a blowing-machine, necessary for the treatment of
the ore that the engineer wished to manufacture with the skins of the
amphibious creatures. They were of a medium size, for their length did
not exceed six feet. They resembled a dog about the head.

As it was useless to burden themselves with the weight of both the
animals, Neb and Pencroft resolved to skin them on the spot, while Cyrus
Harding and the reporter continued to explore the islet.

The sailor and the Negro cleverly performed the operation, and three
hours afterwards Cyrus Harding had at his disposal two seals’ skins,
which he intended to use in this state, without subjecting them to any
tanning process.

The settlers waited till the tide was again low, and crossing the
channel they entered the Chimneys.

The skins had then to be stretched on a frame of wood and sewn by means
of fibers so as to preserve the air without allowing too much to escape.
Cyrus Harding had nothing but the two steel blades from Top’s collar,
and yet he was so clever, and his companions aided him with so much
intelligence, that three days afterwards the little colony’s stock of
tools was augmented by a blowing-machine, destined to inject the air
into the midst of the ore when it should be subjected to heat--an
indispensable condition to the success of the operation.

On the morning of the 20th of April began the “metallic period,” as the
reporter called it in his notes. The engineer had decided, as has been
said, to operate near the veins both of coal and ore. Now, according to
his observations, these veins were situated at the foot of the northeast
spurs of Mount Franklin, that is to say, a distance of six miles from
their home. It was impossible, therefore, to return every day to the
Chimneys, and it was agreed that the little colony should camp under a
hut of branches, so that the important operation could be followed night
and day.

This settled, they set out in the morning. Neb and Pencroft dragged the
bellows on a hurdle; also a quantity of vegetables and animals, which
they besides could renew on the way.

The road led through Jacamar Wood, which they traversed obliquely from
southeast to northwest, and in the thickest part. It was necessary to
beat a path, which would in the future form the most direct road to
Prospect Heights and Mount Franklin. The trees, belonging to the species
already discovered, were magnificent. Herbert found some new ones, among
others some which Pencroft called “sham leeks”; for, in spite of their
size, they were of the same liliaceous family as the onion, chive,
shallot, or asparagus. These trees produce ligneous roots which, when
cooked, are excellent; from them, by fermentation, a very agreeable
liquor is made. They therefore made a good store of the roots.

The journey through the wood was long; it lasted the whole day, and so
allowed plenty of time for examining the flora and fauna. Top, who
took special charge of the fauna, ran through the grass and brushwood,
putting up all sorts of game. Herbert and Gideon Spilett killed two
kangaroos with bows and arrows, and also an animal which strongly
resembled both a hedgehog and an ant-eater. It was like the first
because it rolled itself into a ball, and bristled with spines, and the
second because it had sharp claws, a long slender snout which terminated
in a bird’s beak, and an extendible tongue, covered with little thorns
which served to hold the insects.

“And when it is in the pot,” asked Pencroft naturally, “what will it be
like?”

“An excellent piece of beef,” replied Herbert.

“We will not ask more from it,” replied the sailor.

During this excursion they saw several wild boars, which however, did
not offer to attack the little band, and it appeared as if they would
not meet with any dangerous beasts; when, in a thick part of the wood,
the reporter thought he saw, some paces from him, among the lower
branches of a tree, an animal which he took for a bear, and which he
very tranquilly began to draw. Happily for Gideon Spilett, the animal in
question did not belong to the redoubtable family of the plantigrades.
It was only a koala, better known under the name of the sloth, being
about the size of a large dog, and having stiff hair of a dirty color,
the paws armed with strong claws, which enabled it to climb trees and
feed on the leaves. Having identified the animal, which they did not
disturb, Gideon Spilett erased “bear” from the title of his sketch,
putting koala in its place, and the journey was resumed.

At five o’clock in the evening, Cyrus Harding gave the signal to halt.
They were now outside the forest, at the beginning of the powerful spurs
which supported Mount Franklin towards the west. At a distance of some
hundred feet flowed the Red Creek, and consequently plenty of fresh
water was within their reach.

The camp was soon organized. In less than an hour, on the edge of the
forest, among the trees, a hut of branches interlaced with creepers,
and pasted over with clay, offered a tolerable shelter. Their geological
researches were put off till the next day. Supper was prepared, a good
fire blazed before the hut, the roast turned, and at eight o’clock,
while one of the settlers watched to keep up the fire, in case any wild
beasts should prowl in the neighborhood, the others slept soundly.

The next day, the 21st of April, Cyrus Harding accompanied by Herbert,
went to look for the soil of ancient formation, on which he had already
discovered a specimen of ore. They found the vein above ground, near the
source of the creek, at the foot of one of the northeastern spurs. This
ore, very rich in iron, enclosed in its fusible veinstone, was perfectly
suited to the mode of reduction which the engineer intended to employ;
that is, the Catalan method, but simplified, as it is used in
Corsica. In fact, the Catalan method, properly so called, requires the
construction of kilns and crucibles, in which the ore and the coal,
placed in alternate layers, are transformed and reduced, But Cyrus
Harding intended to economize these constructions, and wished simply to
form, with the ore and the coal, a cubic mass, to the center of which he
would direct the wind from his bellows. Doubtless, it was the proceeding
employed by Tubalcain, and the first metallurgists of the inhabited
world. Now that which had succeeded with the grandson of Adam, and which
still yielded good results in countries rich in ore and fuel, could not
but succeed with the settlers in Lincoln Island.

The coal, as well as the ore, was collected without trouble on the
surface of the ground. They first broke the ore into little pieces,
and cleansed them with the hand from the impurities which soiled their
surface. Then coal and ore were arranged in heaps and in successive
layers, as the charcoal-burner does with the wood which he wishes to
carbonize. In this way, under the influence of the air projected by the
blowing-machine, the coal would be transformed into carbonic acid, then
into oxide of carbon, its use being to reduce the oxide of iron, that is
to say, to rid it of the oxygen.

Thus the engineer proceeded. The bellows of sealskin, furnished at its
extremity with a nozzle of clay, which had been previously fabricated
in the pottery kiln, was established near the heap of ore. Using the
mechanism which consisted of a frame, cords of fiber and counterpoise,
he threw into the mass an abundance of air, which by raising the
temperature also concurred with the chemical transformation to produce
in time pure iron.

The operation was difficult. All the patience, all the ingenuity of the
settlers was needed; but at last it succeeded, and the result was a lump
of iron, reduced to a spongy state, which it was necessary to shingle
and fagot, that is to say, to forge so as to expel from it the liquefied
veinstone. These amateur smiths had, of course, no hammer; but they were
in no worse a situation than the first metallurgist, and therefore did
what, no doubt, he had to do.

A handle was fixed to the first lump, and was used as a hammer to forge
the second on a granite anvil, and thus they obtained a coarse but
useful metal. At length, after many trials and much fatigue, on the 25th
of April several bars of iron were forged, and transformed into tools,
crowbars, pincers, pickaxes, spades, etc., which Pencroft and Neb
declared to be real jewels. But the metal was not yet in its most
serviceable state, that is, of steel. Now steel is a combination of iron
and coal, which is extracted, either from the liquid ore, by taking from
it the excess of coal, or from the iron by adding to it the coal which
was wanting. The first, obtained by the decarburation of the metal,
gives natural or puddled steel; the second, produced by the carburation
of the iron, gives steel of cementation.

It was the last which Cyrus Harding intended to forge, as he possessed
iron in a pure state. He succeeded by heating the metal with powdered
coal in a crucible which had previously been manufactured from clay
suitable for the purpose.

He then worked this steel, which is malleable both when hot or cold,
with the hammer. Neb and Pencroft, cleverly directed, made hatchets,
which, heated red-hot, and plunged suddenly into cold water, acquired an
excellent temper.

Other instruments, of course roughly fashioned, were also manufactured;
blades for planes, axes, hatchets, pieces of steel to be transformed
into saws, chisels; then iron for spades, pickaxes, hammers, nails,
etc. At last, on the 5th of May, the metallic period ended, the smiths
returned to the Chimneys, and new work would soon authorize them to take
a fresh title.



Chapter 16

It was the 6th of May, a day which corresponds to the 6th of November in
the countries of the Northern Hemisphere. The sky had been obscured for
some days, and it was of importance to make preparations for the winter.
However, the temperature was not as yet much lower, and a centigrade
thermometer, transported to Lincoln Island, would still have marked an
average of ten to twelve degrees above zero. This was not surprising,
since Lincoln Island, probably situated between the thirty-fifth and
fortieth parallel, would be subject, in the Southern Hemisphere, to
the same climate as Sicily or Greece in the Northern Hemisphere. But as
Greece and Sicily have severe cold, producing snow and ice, so doubtless
would Lincoln Island in the severest part of the winter and it was
advisable to provide against it.

In any case if cold did not yet threaten them, the rainy season would
begin, and on this lonely island, exposed to all the fury of the
elements, in mid-ocean, bad weather would be frequent, and probably
terrible. The question of a more comfortable dwelling than the Chimneys
must therefore be seriously considered and promptly resolved on.

Pencroft, naturally, had some predilection for the retreat which he
had discovered, but he well understood that another must be found. The
Chimneys had been already visited by the sea, under circumstances
which are known, and it would not do to be exposed again to a similar
accident.

“Besides,” added Cyrus Harding, who this day was talking of these things
with his companions, “we have some precautions to take.”

“Why? The island is not inhabited,” said the reporter.

“That is probable,” replied the engineer, “although we have not yet
explored the interior; but if no human beings are found, I fear that
dangerous animals may abound. It is necessary to guard against a
possible attack, so that we shall not be obliged to watch every night,
or to keep up a fire. And then, my friends, we must foresee everything.
We are here in a part of the Pacific often frequented by Malay
pirates--”

“What!” said Herbert, “at such a distance from land?”

“Yes, my boy,” replied the engineer. “These pirates are bold sailors as
well as formidable enemies, and we must take measures accordingly.”

“Well,” replied Pencroft, “we will fortify ourselves against savages
with two legs as well as against savages with four. But, captain, will
it not be best to explore every part of the island before undertaking
anything else?”

“That would be best,” added Gideon Spilett.

“Who knows if we might not find on the opposite side one of the caverns
which we have searched for in vain here?”

“That is true,” replied the engineer, “but you forget, my friends, that
it will be necessary to establish ourselves in the neighborhood of a
watercourse, and that, from the summit of Mount Franklin, we could not
see towards the west, either stream or river. Here, on the contrary, we
are placed between the Mercy and Lake Grant, an advantage which must not
be neglected. And, besides, this side, looking towards the east, is not
exposed as the other is to the trade-winds, which in this hemisphere
blow from the northwest.”

“Then, captain,” replied the sailor, “let us build a house on the edge
of the lake. Neither bricks nor tools are wanting now. After having been
brickmakers, potters, smelters, and smiths, we shall surely know how to
be masons!”

“Yes, my friend; but before coming to any decision we must consider
the matter thoroughly. A natural dwelling would spare us much work,
and would be a surer retreat, for it would be as well defended against
enemies from the interior as those from outside.”

“That is true, Cyrus,” replied the reporter, “but we have already
examined all that mass of granite, and there is not a hole, not a
cranny!”

“No, not one!” added Pencroft. “Ah, if we were able to dig out a
dwelling in that cliff, at a good height, so as to be out of the reach
of harm, that would be capital! I can see that on the front which looks
seaward, five or six rooms--”

“With windows to light them!” said Herbert, laughing.

“And a staircase to climb up to them!” added Neb.

“You are laughing,” cried the sailor, “and why? What is there impossible
in what I propose? Haven’t we got pickaxes and spades? Won’t Captain
Harding be able to make powder to blow up the mine? Isn’t it true,
captain, that you will make powder the very day we want it?”

Cyrus Harding listened to the enthusiastic Pencroft developing his
fanciful projects. To attack this mass of granite, even by a mine, was
Herculean work, and it was really vexing that nature could not help them
at their need. But the engineer did not reply to the sailor except by
proposing to examine the cliff more attentively, from the mouth of the
river to the angle which terminated it on the north.

They went out, therefore, and the exploration was made with extreme
care, over an extent of nearly two miles. But in no place in the bare,
straight cliff, could any cavity be found. The nests of the rock pigeons
which fluttered at its summit were only, in reality, holes bored at the
very top, and on the irregular edge of the granite.

It was a provoking circumstance, and as to attacking this cliff, either
with pickaxe or with powder, so as to effect a sufficient excavation, it
was not to be thought of. It so happened that, on all this part of the
shore, Pencroft had discovered the only habitable shelter, that is to
say, the Chimneys, which now had to be abandoned.

The exploration ended, the colonists found themselves at the north angle
of the cliff, where it terminated in long slopes which died away on the
shore. From this place, to its extreme limit in the west, it only formed
a sort of declivity, a thick mass of stones, earth, and sand, bound
together by plants, bushes, and grass inclined at an angle of only
forty-five degrees. Clumps of trees grew on these slopes, which were
also carpeted with thick grass. But the vegetation did not extend
far, and a long, sandy plain, which began at the foot of these slopes,
reached to the beach.

Cyrus Harding thought, not without reason, that the overplus of the lake
must overflow on this side. The excess of water furnished by the Red
Creek must also escape by some channel or other. Now the engineer had
not yet found this channel on any part of the shore already explored,
that is to say, from the mouth of the stream on the west of Prospect
Heights.

The engineer now proposed to his companions to climb the slope, and to
return to the Chimneys by the heights, while exploring the northern
and eastern shores of the lake. The proposal was accepted, and in a few
minutes Herbert and Neb were on the upper plateau. Cyrus Harding, Gideon
Spilett, and Pencroft followed with more sedate steps.

The beautiful sheet of water glittered through the trees under the rays
of the sun. In this direction the country was charming. The eye feasted
on the groups of trees. Some old trunks, bent with age, showed black
against the verdant grass which covered the ground. Crowds of brilliant
cockatoos screamed among the branches, moving prisms, hopping from one
bough to another.

The settlers instead of going directly to the north bank of the lake,
made a circuit round the edge of the plateau, so as to join the mouth
of the creek on its left bank. It was a detour of more than a mile and a
half. Walking was easy, for the trees widely spread, left a considerable
space between them. The fertile zone evidently stopped at this point,
and vegetation would be less vigorous in the part between the course of
the Creek and the Mercy.

Cyrus Harding and his companions walked over this new ground with great
care. Bows, arrows, and sticks with sharp iron points were their only
weapons. However, no wild beast showed itself, and it was probable that
these animals frequented rather the thick forests in the south; but the
settlers had the disagreeable surprise of seeing Top stop before a snake
of great size, measuring from fourteen to fifteen feet in length. Neb
killed it by a blow from his stick. Cyrus Harding examined the reptile,
and declared it not venomous, for it belonged to that species of diamond
serpents which the natives of New South Wales rear. But it was possible
that others existed whose bite was mortal such as the deaf vipers with
forked tails, which rise up under the feet, or those winged snakes,
furnished with two ears, which enable them to proceed with great
rapidity. Top, the first moment of surprise over, began a reptile chase
with such eagerness, that they feared for his safety. His master called
him back directly.

The mouth of the Red Creek, at the place where it entered into the lake,
was soon reached. The explorers recognized on the opposite shore the
point which they had visited on their descent from Mount Franklin. Cyrus
Harding ascertained that the flow of water into it from the creek was
considerable. Nature must therefore have provided some place for the
escape of the overplus. This doubtless formed a fall, which, if it could
be discovered, would be of great use.

The colonists, walking apart, but not straying far from each other,
began to skirt the edge of the lake, which was very steep. The water
appeared to be full of fish, and Pencroft resolved to make some
fishing-rods, so as to try and catch some.

The northeast point was first to be doubled. It might have been supposed
that the discharge of water was at this place, for the extremity of the
lake was almost on a level with the edge of the plateau. But no signs of
this were discovered, and the colonists continued to explore the bank,
which, after a slight bend, descended parallel to the shore.

On this side the banks were less woody, but clumps of trees, here and
there, added to the picturesqueness of the country. Lake Grant was
viewed from thence in all its extent, and no breath disturbed the
surface of its waters. Top, in beating the bushes, put up flocks of
birds of different kinds, which Gideon Spilett and Herbert saluted with
arrows. One was hit by the lad, and fell into some marshy grass. Top
rushed forward, and brought a beautiful swimming bird, of a slate color,
short beak, very developed frontal plate, and wings edged with white. It
was a “coot,” the size of a large partridge, belonging to the group of
macrodactyls which form the transition between the order of wading birds
and that of palmipeds. Sorry game, in truth, and its flavor is far from
pleasant. But Top was not so particular in these things as his masters,
and it was agreed that the coot should be for his supper.

The settlers were now following the eastern bank of the lake, and they
would not be long in reaching the part which they already knew.
The engineer was much surprised at not seeing any indication of the
discharge of water. The reporter and the sailor talked with him, and he
could not conceal his astonishment.

At this moment Top, who had been very quiet till then, gave signs of
agitation. The intelligent animal went backwards and forwards on the
shore, stopped suddenly, and looked at the water, one paw raised, as if
he was pointing at some invisible game; then he barked furiously, and
was suddenly silent.

Neither Cyrus Harding nor his companions had at first paid any attention
to Top’s behavior; but the dog’s barking soon became so frequent that
the engineer noticed it.

“What is there, Top?” he asked.

The dog bounded towards his master, seeming to be very uneasy, and then
rushed again towards the bank. Then, all at once, he plunged into the
lake.

“Here, Top!” cried Cyrus Harding, who did not like his dog to venture
into the treacherous water.

“What’s happening down there?” asked Pencroft, examining the surface of
the lake.

“Top smells some amphibious creature,” replied Herbert.

“An alligator, perhaps,” said the reporter.

“I do not think so,” replied Harding. “Alligators are only met with in
regions less elevated in latitude.”

Meanwhile Top had returned at his master’s call, and had regained the
shore: but he could not stay quiet; he plunged in among the tall grass,
and guided by instinct, he appeared to follow some invisible being which
was slipping along under the surface of the water. However the water
was calm; not a ripple disturbed its surface. Several times the settlers
stopped on the bank, and observed it attentively. Nothing appeared.
There was some mystery there.

The engineer was puzzled.

“Let us pursue this exploration to the end,” said he.

Half an hour after they had all arrived at the southeast angle of the
lake, on Prospect Heights. At this point the examination of the banks of
the lake was considered finished, and yet the engineer had not been able
to discover how and where the waters were discharged. “There is no doubt
this overflow exists,” he repeated, “and since it is not visible it must
go through the granite cliff at the west!”

“But what importance do you attach to knowing that, my dear Cyrus?”
 asked Gideon Spilett.

“Considerable importance,” replied the engineer; “for if it flows
through the cliff there is probably some cavity, which it would be easy
to render habitable after turning away the water.”

“But is it not possible, captain, that the water flows away at the
bottom of the lake,” said Herbert, “and that it reaches the sea by some
subterranean passage?”

“That might be,” replied the engineer, “and should it be so we shall be
obliged to build our house ourselves, since nature has not done it for
us.”

The colonists were about to begin to traverse the plateau to return to
the Chimneys, when Top gave new signs of agitation. He barked with fury,
and before his master could restrain him, he had plunged a second time
into the lake.

All ran towards the bank. The dog was already more than twenty feet off,
and Cyrus was calling him back, when an enormous head emerged from the
water, which did not appear to be deep in that place.

Herbert recognized directly the species of amphibian to which the
tapering head, with large eyes, and adorned with long silky mustaches,
belonged.

“A lamantin!” he cried.

It was not a lamantin, but one of that species of the order of
cetaceans, which bear the name of the “dugong,” for its nostrils were
open at the upper part of its snout. The enormous animal rushed on the
dog, who tried to escape by returning towards the shore. His master
could do nothing to save him, and before Gideon Spilett or Herbert
thought of bending their bows, Top, seized by the dugong, had
disappeared beneath the water.

Neb, his iron-tipped spear in his hand, wished to go to Top’s help, and
attack the dangerous animal in its own element.

“No, Neb,” said the engineer, restraining his courageous servant.

Meanwhile, a struggle was going on beneath the water, an inexplicable
struggle, for in his situation Top could not possibly resist; and
judging by the bubbling of the surface it must be also a terrible
struggle, and could not but terminate in the death of the dog! But
suddenly, in the middle of a foaming circle, Top reappeared. Thrown in
the air by some unknown power, he rose ten feet above the surface of the
lake, fell again into the midst of the agitated waters, and then soon
gained the shore, without any severe wounds, miraculously saved.

Cyrus Harding and his companions could not understand it. What was not
less inexplicable was that the struggle still appeared to be going on.
Doubtless, the dugong, attacked by some powerful animal, after having
released the dog, was fighting on its own account. But it did not last
long. The water became red with blood, and the body of the dugong,
emerging from the sheet of scarlet which spread around, soon stranded on
a little beach at the south angle of the lake. The colonists ran towards
it. The dugong was dead. It was an enormous animal, fifteen or sixteen
feet long, and must have weighed from three to four thousand pounds. At
its neck was a wound, which appeared to have been produced by a sharp
blade.

What could the amphibious creature have been, who, by this terrible
blow had destroyed the formidable dugong? No one could tell, and much
interested in this incident, Harding and his companions returned to the
Chimneys.



Chapter 17

The next day, the 7th of May, Harding and Gideon Spilett, leaving Neb to
prepare breakfast, climbed Prospect Heights, while Herbert and Pencroft
ascended by the river, to renew their store of wood.

The engineer and the reporter soon reached the little beach on which the
dugong had been stranded. Already flocks of birds had attacked the mass
of flesh, and had to be driven away with stones, for Cyrus wished to
keep the fat for the use of the colony. As to the animal’s flesh
it would furnish excellent food, for in the islands of the Malay
Archipelago and elsewhere, it is especially reserved for the table of
the native princes. But that was Neb’s affair.

At this moment Cyrus Harding had other thoughts. He was much interested
in the incident of the day before. He wished to penetrate the mystery
of that submarine combat, and to ascertain what monster could have given
the dugong so strange a wound. He remained at the edge of the lake,
looking, observing; but nothing appeared under the tranquil waters,
which sparkled in the first rays of the rising sun.

At the beach, on which lay the body of the dugong, the water was
tolerably shallow, but from this point the bottom of the lake sloped
gradually, and it was probable that the depth was considerable in the
center. The lake might be considered as a large center basin, which was
filled by the water from the Red Creek.

“Well, Cyrus,” said the reporter, “there seems to be nothing suspicious
in this water.”

“No, my dear Spilett,” replied the engineer, “and I really do not know
how to account for the incident of yesterday.”

“I acknowledge,” returned Spilett, “that the wound given this creature
is, at least, very strange, and I cannot explain either how Top was
so vigorously cast up out of the water. One could have thought that a
powerful arm hurled him up, and that the same arm with a dagger killed
the dugong!”

“Yes,” replied the engineer, who had become thoughtful; “there is
something there that I cannot understand. But do you better understand
either, my dear Spilett, in what way I was saved myself--how I was drawn
from the waves, and carried to the downs? No! Is it not true? Now, I
feel sure that there is some mystery there, which, doubtless, we shall
discover some day. Let us observe, but do not dwell on these singular
incidents before our companions. Let us keep our remarks to ourselves,
and continue our work.”

It will be remembered that the engineer had not as yet been able to
discover the place where the surplus water escaped, but he knew it must
exist somewhere. He was much surprised to see a strong current at this
place. By throwing in some bits of wood he found that it set towards the
southern angle. He followed the current, and arrived at the south point
of the lake.

There was there a sort of depression in the water, as if it was suddenly
lost in some fissure in the ground.

Harding listened; placing his ear to the level of the lake, he very
distinctly heard the noise of a subterranean fall.

“There,” said he, rising, “is the discharge of the water; there,
doubtless, by a passage in the granite cliff, it joins the sea, through
cavities which we can use to our profit. Well, I can find it!”

The engineer cut a long branch, stripped it of its leaves, and plunging
it into the angle between the two banks, he found that there was a large
hole one foot only beneath the surface of the water. This hole was the
opening so long looked for in vain, and the force of the current was
such that the branch was torn from the engineer’s hands and disappeared.

“There is no doubt about it now,” repeated Harding. “There is the
outlet, and I will lay it open to view!”

“How?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“By lowering the level of the water of the lake three feet.”

“And how will you lower the level?”

“By opening another outlet larger than this.”

“At what place, Cyrus?”

“At the part of the bank nearest the coast.”

“But it is a mass of granite!” observed Spilett.

“Well,” replied Cyrus Harding, “I will blow up the granite, and the
water escaping, will subside, so as to lay bare this opening--”

“And make a waterfall, by falling on to the beach,” added the reporter.

“A fall that we shall make use of!” replied Cyrus. “Come, come!”

The engineer hurried away his companion, whose confidence in Harding was
such that he did not doubt the enterprise would succeed. And yet, how
was this granite wall to be opened without powder, and with imperfect
instruments? Was not this work upon which the engineer was so bent above
their strength?

When Harding and the reporter entered the Chimneys, they found Herbert
and Pencroft unloading their raft of wood.

“The woodmen have just finished, captain.” said the sailor, laughing,
“and when you want masons--”

“Masons,--no, but chemists,” replied the engineer.

“Yes,” added the reporter, “we are going to blow up the island--”

“Blow up the island?” cried Pencroft.

“Part of it, at least,” replied Spilett.

“Listen to me, my friends,” said the engineer. And he made known to them
the result of his observations.

According to him, a cavity, more or less considerable, must exist in
the mass of granite which supported Prospect Heights, and he intended
to penetrate into it. To do this, the opening through which the water
rushed must first be cleared, and the level lowered by making a larger
outlet. Therefore an explosive substance must be manufactured, which
would make a deep trench in some other part of the shore. This was what
Harding was going to attempt with the minerals which nature placed at
his disposal.

It is useless to say with what enthusiasm all, especially Pencroft,
received this project. To employ great means, open the granite, create a
cascade, that suited the sailor. And he would just as soon be a chemist
as a mason or bootmaker, since the engineer wanted chemicals. He would
be all that they liked, “even a professor of dancing and deportment,”
 said he to Neb, if that was ever necessary.

Neb and Pencroft were first of all told to extract the grease from the
dugong, and to keep the flesh, which was destined for food. Such perfect
confidence had they in the engineer, that they set out directly,
without even asking a question. A few minutes after them, Cyrus Harding,
Herbert, and Gideon Spilett, dragging the hurdle, went towards the vein
of coals, where those shistose pyrites abound which are met with in the
most recent transition soil, and of which Harding had already found a
specimen. All the day being employed in carrying a quantity of these
stones to the Chimneys, by evening they had several tons.

The next day, the 8th of May, the engineer began his manipulations.
These shistose pyrites being composed principally of coal, flint,
alumina, and sulphuret of iron--the latter in excess--it was necessary
to separate the sulphuret of iron, and transform it into sulphate as
rapidly as possible. The sulphate obtained, the sulphuric acid could
then be extracted.

This was the object to be attained. Sulphuric acid is one of the agents
the most frequently employed, and the manufacturing importance of a
nation can be measured by the consumption which is made of it. This acid
would later be of great use to the settlers, in the manufacturing of
candles, tanning skins, etc., but this time the engineer reserved it for
another use.

Cyrus Harding chose, behind the Chimneys, a site where the ground
was perfectly level. On this ground he placed a layer of branches and
chopped wood, on which were piled some pieces of shistose pyrites,
buttressed one against the other, the whole being covered with a thin
layer of pyrites, previously reduced to the size of a nut.

This done, they set fire to the wood, the heat was communicated to the
shist, which soon kindled, since it contains coal and sulphur. Then new
layers of bruised pyrites were arranged so as to form an immense
heap, the exterior of which was covered with earth and grass, several
air-holes being left, as if it was a stack of wood which was to be
carbonized to make charcoal.

They then left the transformation to complete itself, and it would
not take less than ten or twelve days for the sulphuret of iron to be
changed to sulphate of iron and the alumina into sulphate of alumina,
two equally soluble substances, the others, flint, burnt coal, and
cinders, not being so.

While this chemical work was going on, Cyrus Harding proceeded with
other operations, which were pursued with more than zeal,--it was
eagerness.

Neb and Pencroft had taken away the fat from the dugong, and placed it
in large earthen pots. It was then necessary to separate the glycerine
from the fat by saponifying it. Now, to obtain this result, it had to
be treated either with soda or lime. In fact, one or other of these
substances, after having attacked the fat, would form a soap by
separating the glycerine, and it was just this glycerine which the
engineer wished to obtain. There was no want of lime, only treatment by
lime would give calcareous soap, insoluble, and consequently useless,
while treatment by soda would furnish, on the contrary, a soluble soap,
which could be put to domestic use. Now, a practical man, like Cyrus
Harding, would rather try to obtain soda. Was this difficult? No; for
marine plants abounded on the shore, glass-wort, ficoides, and all
those fucaceae which form wrack. A large quantity of these plants
was collected, first dried, then burnt in holes in the open air. The
combustion of these plants was kept up for several days, and the result
was a compact gray mass, which has been long known under the name of
“natural soda.”

This obtained, the engineer treated the fat with soda, which gave both a
soluble soap and that neutral substance, glycerine.

But this was not all. Cyrus Harding still needed, in view of his future
preparation, another substance, nitrate of potash, which is better known
under the name of salt niter, or of saltpeter.

Cyrus Harding could have manufactured this substance by treating the
carbonate of potash, which would be easily extracted from the cinders of
the vegetables, by azotic acid. But this acid was wanting, and he would
have been in some difficulty, if nature had not happily furnished the
saltpeter, without giving them any other trouble than that of picking it
up. Herbert found a vein of it at the foot of Mount Franklin, and they
had nothing to do but purify this salt.

These different works lasted a week. They were finished before
the transformation of the sulphuret into sulphate of iron had been
accomplished. During the following days the settlers had time to
construct a furnace of bricks of a particular arrangement, to serve for
the distillation of the sulphate or iron when it had been obtained. All
this was finished about the 18th of May, nearly at the time when the
chemical transformation terminated. Gideon Spilett, Herbert, Neb, and
Pencroft, skillfully directed by the engineer, had become most clever
workmen. Before all masters, necessity is the one most listened to, and
who teaches the best.

When the heap of pyrites had been entirely reduced by fire, the result
of the operation, consisting of sulphate of iron, sulphate of alumina,
flint, remains of coal, and cinders was placed in a basinful of water.
They stirred this mixture, let it settle, then decanted it, and obtained
a clear liquid containing in solution sulphate of iron and sulphate of
alumina, the other matters remaining solid, since they are insoluble.
Lastly, this liquid being partly evaporated, crystals of sulphate of
iron were deposited, and the not evaporated liquid, which contained the
sulphate of alumina, was thrown away.

Cyrus Harding had now at his disposal a large quantity of these sulphate
of iron crystals, from which the sulphuric acid had to be extracted. The
making of sulphuric acid is a very expensive manufacture. Considerable
works are necessary--a special set of tools, an apparatus of
platina, leaden chambers, unassailable by the acid, and in which the
transformation is performed, etc. The engineer had none of these at his
disposal, but he knew that, in Bohemia especially, sulphuric acid is
manufactured by very simple means, which have also the advantage of
producing it to a superior degree of concentration. It is thus that the
acid known under the name of Nordhausen acid is made.

To obtain sulphuric acid, Cyrus Harding had only one operation to make,
to calcine the sulphate of iron crystals in a closed vase, so that the
sulphuric acid should distil in vapor, which vapor, by condensation,
would produce the acid.

The crystals were placed in pots, and the heat from the furnace would
distil the sulphuric acid. The operation was successfully completed, and
on the 20th of May, twelve days after commencing it, the engineer
was the possessor of the agent which later he hoped to use in so many
different ways.

Now, why did he wish for this agent? Simply to produce azotic acid;
and that was easy, since saltpeter, attacked by sulphuric acid, gives
azotic, or nitric, acid by distillation.

But, after all, how was he going to employ this azotic acid? His
companions were still ignorant of this, for he had not informed them of
the result at which he aimed.

However, the engineer had nearly accomplished his purpose, and by a
last operation he would procure the substance which had given so much
trouble.

Taking some azotic acid, he mixed it with glycerine, which had been
previously concentrated by evaporation, subjected to the water-bath, and
he obtained, without even employing a refrigerant mixture, several pints
of an oily yellow mixture.

This last operation Cyrus Harding had made alone, in a retired place, at
a distance from the Chimneys, for he feared the danger of an explosion,
and when he showed a bottle of this liquid to his friends, he contented
himself with saying,--

“Here is nitro-glycerine!”

It was really this terrible production, of which the explosive power is
perhaps tenfold that of ordinary powder, and which has already caused so
many accidents. However, since a way has been found to transform it into
dynamite, that is to say, to mix with it some solid substance, clay or
sugar, porous enough to hold it, the dangerous liquid has been used
with some security. But dynamite was not yet known at the time when the
settlers worked on Lincoln Island.

“And is it that liquid that is going to blow up our rocks?” said
Pencroft incredulously.

“Yes, my friend,” replied the engineer, “and this nitro-glycerine will
produce so much the more effect, as the granite is extremely hard, and
will oppose a greater resistance to the explosion.”

“And when shall we see this, captain?”

“To-morrow, as soon as we have dug a hole for the mine, replied the
engineer.”

The next day, the 21st of May, at daybreak, the miners went to the point
which formed the eastern shore of Lake Grant, and was only five hundred
feet from the coast. At this place, the plateau inclined downwards from
the waters, which were only restrained by their granite case. Therefore,
if this case was broken, the water would escape by the opening and form
a stream, which, flowing over the inclined surface of the plateau,
would rush on to the beach. Consequently, the level of the lake would
be greatly lowered, and the opening where the water escaped would be
exposed, which was their final aim.

Under the engineer’s directions, Pencroft, armed with a pickaxe, which
he handled skillfully and vigorously, attacked the granite. The hole was
made on the point of the shore, slanting, so that it should meet a
much lower level than that of the water of the lake. In this way the
explosive force, by scattering the rock, would open a large place for
the water to rush out.

The work took some time, for the engineer, wishing to produce a great
effect, intended to devote not less than seven quarts of nitro-glycerine
to the operation. But Pencroft, relieved by Neb, did so well, that
towards four o’clock in the evening, the mine was finished.

Now the question of setting fire to the explosive substance was raised.
Generally, nitro-glycerine is ignited by caps of fulminate, which in
bursting cause the explosion. A shock is therefore needed to produce
the explosion, for, simply lighted, this substance would burn without
exploding.

Cyrus Harding could certainly have fabricated a percussion cap. In
default of fulminate, he could easily obtain a substance similar to
guncotton, since he had azotic acid at his disposal. This substance,
pressed in a cartridge, and introduced among the nitro-glycerine, would
burst by means of a fuse, and cause the explosion.

But Cyrus Harding knew that nitro-glycerine would explode by a shock.
He resolved to employ this means, and try another way, if this did not
succeed.

In fact, the blow of a hammer on a few drops of nitro-glycerine, spread
out on a hard surface, was enough to create an explosion. But the
operator could not be there to give the blow, without becoming a victim
to the operation. Harding, therefore, thought of suspending a mass of
iron, weighing several pounds, by means of a fiber, to an upright just
above the mine. Another long fiber, previously impregnated with sulphur,
was attached to the middle of the first, by one end, while the other lay
on the ground several feet distant from the mine. The second fiber being
set on fire, it would burn till it reached the first. This catching
fire in its turn, would break, and the mass of iron would fall on the
nitro-glycerine. This apparatus being then arranged, the engineer, after
having sent his companions to a distance, filled the hole, so that the
nitro-glycerine was on a level with the opening; then he threw a few
drops of it on the surface of the rock, above which the mass of iron was
already suspended.

This done, Harding lit the end of the sulphured fiber, and leaving the
place, he returned with his companions to the Chimneys.

The fiber was intended to burn five and twenty minutes, and, in fact,
five and twenty minutes afterwards a most tremendous explosion was
heard. The island appeared to tremble to its very foundation. Stones
were projected in the air as if by the eruption of a volcano. The shock
produced by the displacing of the air was such, that the rocks of the
Chimneys shook. The settlers, although they were more than two miles
from the mine, were thrown on the ground.

They rose, climbed the plateau, and ran towards the place where the bank
of the lake must have been shattered by the explosion.

A cheer escaped them! A large rent was seen in the granite! A rapid
stream of water rushed foaming across the plateau and dashed down a
height of three hundred feet on to the beach!



Chapter 18

Cyrus Harding’s project had succeeded, but, according to his usual
habit he showed no satisfaction; with closed lips and a fixed look, he
remained motionless. Herbert was in ecstasies, Neb bounded with joy,
Pencroft nodded his great head, murmuring these words,--

“Come, our engineer gets on capitally!”

The nitro-glycerine had indeed acted powerfully. The opening which it
had made was so large that the volume of water which escaped through
this new outlet was at least treble that which before passed through the
old one. The result was, that a short time after the operation the level
of the lake would be lowered two feet, or more.

The settlers went to the Chimneys to take some pickaxes, iron-tipped
spears, string made of fibers, flint and steel; they then returned to
the plateau, Top accompanying them.

On the way the sailor could not help saying to the engineer,--

“Don’t you think, captain, that by means of that charming liquid you
have made, one could blow up the whole of our island?”

“Without any doubt, the island, continents, and the world itself,”
 replied the engineer. “It is only a question of quantity.”

“Then could you not use this nitro-glycerine for loading firearms?”
 asked the sailor.

“No, Pencroft; for it is too explosive a substance. But it would be easy
to make some guncotton, or even ordinary powder, as we have azotic acid,
saltpeter, sulphur, and coal. Unhappily, it is the guns which we have
not got.

“Oh, captain,” replied the sailor, “with a little determination--”

Pencroft had erased the word “impossible” from the dictionary of Lincoln
Island.

The settlers, having arrived at Prospect Heights, went immediately
towards that point of the lake near which was the old opening now
uncovered. This outlet had now become practicable, since the water no
longer rushed through it, and it would doubtless be easy to explore the
interior.

In a few minutes the settlers had reached the lower point of the lake,
and a glance showed them that the object had been attained.

In fact, in the side of the lake, and now above the surface of the
water, appeared the long-looked-for opening. A narrow ridge, left bare
by the retreat of the water, allowed them to approach it. This orifice
was nearly twenty feet in width, but scarcely two in height. It was like
the mouth of a drain at the edge of the pavement, and therefore did
not offer an easy passage to the settlers; but Neb and Pencroft, taking
their pickaxes, soon made it of a suitable height.

The engineer then approached, and found that the sides of the opening,
in its upper part at least, had not a slope of more than from thirty to
thirty-five degrees. It was therefore practicable, and, provided that
the declivity did not increase, it would be easy to descend even to the
level of the sea. If then, as was probable, some vast cavity existed in
the interior of the granite, it might, perhaps, be of great use.

“Well, captain, what are we stopping for?” asked the sailor, impatient
to enter the narrow passage. “You see Top has got before us!”

“Very well,” replied the engineer. “But we must see our way. Neb, go and
cut some resinous branches.”

Neb and Herbert ran to the edge of the lake, shaded with pines and other
green trees, and soon returned with some branches, which they made
into torches. The torches were lighted with flint and steel, and Cyrus
Harding leading, the settlers ventured into the dark passage, which the
overplus of the lake had formerly filled.

Contrary to what might have been supposed, the diameter of the passage
increased as the explorers proceeded, so that they very soon were able
to stand upright. The granite, worn by the water for an infinite time,
was very slippery, and falls were to be dreaded. But the settlers were
all attached to each other by a cord, as is frequently done in ascending
mountains. Happily some projections of the granite, forming regular
steps, made the descent less perilous. Drops, still hanging from the
rocks, shone here and there under the light of the torches, and
the explorers guessed that the sides were clothed with innumerable
stalactites. The engineer examined this black granite. There was not a
stratum, not a break in it. The mass was compact, and of an extremely
close grain. The passage dated, then, from the very origin of the
island. It was not the water which little by little had hollowed it.
Pluto and not Neptune had bored it with his own hand, and on the wall
traces of an eruptive work could be distinguished, which all the washing
of the water had not been able totally to efface.

The settlers descended very slowly. They could not but feel a certain
awe, in this venturing into these unknown depths, for the first time
visited by human beings. They did not speak, but they thought; and
the thought came to more than one, that some polypus or other
gigantic cephalopod might inhabit the interior cavities, which were in
communication with the sea. However, Top kept at the head of the little
band, and they could rely on the sagacity of the dog, who would not fail
to give the alarm if there was any need for it.

After having descended about a hundred feet, following a winding road,
Harding who was walking on before, stopped, and his companions came up
with him. The place where they had halted was wider, so as to form a
cavern of moderate dimensions. Drops of water fell from the vault, but
that did not prove that they oozed through the rock. They were simply
the last traces left by the torrent which had so long thundered through
this cavity, and the air there was pure though slightly damp, but
producing no mephitic exhalation.

“Well, my dear Cyrus,” said Gideon Spilett, “here is a very secure
retreat, well hid in the depths of the rock, but it is, however,
uninhabitable.”

“Why uninhabitable?” asked the sailor.

“Because it is too small and too dark.”

“Couldn’t we enlarge it, hollow it out, make openings to let in light
and air?” replied Pencroft, who now thought nothing impossible.

“Let us go on with our exploration,” said Cyrus Harding. “Perhaps lower
down, nature will have spared us this labor.”

“We have only gone a third of the way,” observed Herbert.

“Nearly a third,” replied Harding, “for we have descended a hundred feet
from the opening, and it is not impossible that a hundred feet farther
down--”

“Where is Top?” asked Neb, interrupting his master.

They searched the cavern, but the dog was not there.

“Most likely he has gone on,” said Pencroft.

“Let us join him,” replied Harding.

The descent was continued. The engineer carefully observed all the
deviations of the passage, and notwithstanding so many detours, he
could easily have given an account of its general direction, which went
towards the sea.

The settlers had gone some fifty feet farther, when their attention was
attracted by distant sounds which came up from the depths. They stopped
and listened. These sounds, carried through the passage as through an
acoustic tube, came clearly to the ear.

“That is Top barking!” cried Herbert.

“Yes,” replied Pencroft, “and our brave dog is barking furiously!”

“We have our iron-tipped spears,” said Cyrus Harding. “Keep on your
guard, and forward!”

“It is becoming more and more interesting,” murmured Gideon Spilett in
the sailor’s ear, who nodded. Harding and his companions rushed to the
help of their dog. Top’s barking became more and more perceptible,
and it seemed strangely fierce. Was he engaged in a struggle with some
animal whose retreat he had disturbed? Without thinking of the danger
to which they might be exposed, the explorers were now impelled by an
irresistible curiosity, and in a few minutes, sixteen feet lower they
rejoined Top.

There the passage ended in a vast and magnificent cavern.

Top was running backwards and forwards, barking furiously. Pencroft and
Neb, waving their torches, threw the light into every crevice; and
at the same time, Harding, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert, their spears
raised, were ready for any emergency which might arise. The enormous
cavern was empty. The settlers explored it in every direction. There was
nothing there, not an animal, not a human being; and yet Top continued
to bark. Neither caresses nor threats could make him be silent.

“There must be a place somewhere, by which the waters of the lake
reached the sea,” said the engineer.

“Of course,” replied Pencroft, “and we must take care not to tumble into
a hole.”

“Go, Top, go!” cried Harding.

The dog, excited by his master’s words, ran towards the extremity of the
cavern, and there redoubled his barking.

They followed him, and by the light of the torches, perceived the mouth
of a regular well in the granite. It was by this that the water escaped;
and this time it was not an oblique and practicable passage, but a
perpendicular well, into which it was impossible to venture.

The torches were held over the opening: nothing could be seen. Harding
took a lighted branch, and threw it into the abyss. The blazing resin,
whose illuminating power increased still more by the rapidity of its
fall, lighted up the interior of the well, but yet nothing appeared. The
flame then went out with a slight hiss, which showed that it had reached
the water, that is to say, the level of the sea.

The engineer, calculating the time employed in its fall, was able to
calculate the depth of the well, which was found to be about ninety
feet.

The floor of the cavern must thus be situated ninety feet above the
level of the sea.

“Here is our dwelling,” said Cyrus Harding.

“But it was occupied by some creature,” replied Gideon Spilett, whose
curiosity was not yet satisfied.

“Well, the creature, amphibious or otherwise, has made off through this
opening,” replied the engineer, “and has left the place for us.”

“Never mind,” added the sailor, “I should like very much to be Top just
for a quarter of an hour, for he doesn’t bark for nothing!”

Cyrus Harding looked at his dog, and those of his companions who were
near him might have heard him murmur these words,--

“Yes, I believe that Top knows more than we do about a great many
things.”

However, the wishes of the settlers were for the most part satisfied.
Chance, aided by the marvelous sagacity of their leader, had done them
great service. They had now at their disposal a vast cavern, the size
of which could not be properly calculated by the feeble light of their
torches, but it would certainly be easy to divide it into rooms, by
means of brick partitions, or to use it, if not as a house, at least as
a spacious apartment. The water which had left it could not return. The
place was free.

Two difficulties remained; firstly, the possibility of lighting this
excavation in the midst of solid rock; secondly, the necessity of
rendering the means of access more easy. It was useless to think of
lighting it from above, because of the enormous thickness of the granite
which composed the ceiling; but perhaps the outer wall next the sea
might be pierced. Cyrus Harding, during the descent, had roughly
calculated its obliqueness, and consequently the length of the passage,
and was therefore led to believe that the outer wall could not be very
thick. If light was thus obtained, so would a means of access, for
it would be as easy to pierce a door as windows, and to establish an
exterior ladder.

Harding made known his ideas to his companions.

“Then, captain, let us set to work!” replied Pencroft. “I have my
pickaxe, and I shall soon make my way through this wall. Where shall I
strike?”

“Here,” replied the engineer, showing the sturdy sailor a considerable
recess in the side, which would much diminish the thickness.

Pencroft attacked the granite, and for half an hour, by the light of the
torches, he made the splinters fly around him. Neb relieved him, then
Spilett took Neb’s place.

This work had lasted two hours, and they began to fear that at this spot
the wall would not yield to the pickaxe, when at a last blow given by
Gideon Spilett, the instrument, passing through the rock, fell outside.

“Hurrah! hurrah!” cried Pencroft.

The wall only measured there three feet in thickness.

Harding applied his eye to the aperture, which overlooked the ground
from a height of eighty feet. Before him was extended the sea-coast, the
islet, and beyond the open sea.

Floods of light entered by this hole, inundating the splendid cavern and
producing a magic effect! On its left side it did not measure more than
thirty feet in height and breadth, but on the right it was enormous, and
its vaulted roof rose to a height of more than eighty feet.

In some places granite pillars, irregularly disposed, supported the
vaulted roof, as those in the nave of a cathedral, here forming lateral
piers, there elliptical arches, adorned with pointed moldings, losing
themselves in dark bays, amid the fantastic arches of which glimpses
could be caught in the shade, covered with a profusion of projections
formed like so many pendants. This cavern was a picturesque mixture of
all the styles of Byzantine, Roman, or Gothic architecture ever produced
by the hand of man. And yet this was only the work of nature. She alone
had hollowed this fairy Alhambra in a mass of granite.

The settlers were overwhelmed with admiration. Where they had only
expected to find a narrow cavity, they had found a sort of marvelous
palace, and Neb had taken off his hat, as if he had been transported
into a temple!

Cries of admiration issued from every mouth. Hurrahs resounded, and the
echo was repeated again and again till it died away in the dark naves.

“Ah, my friends!” exclaimed Cyrus Harding, “when we have lighted the
interior of this place, and have arranged our rooms and storehouses in
the left part, we shall still have this splendid cavern, which we will
make our study and our museum!”

“And we will call it?--” asked Herbert.

“Granite House,” replied Harding; a name which his companions again
saluted with a cheer.

The torches were now almost consumed, and as they were obliged to return
by the passage to reach the summit of the plateau, it was decided to put
off the work necessary for the arrangement of their new dwelling till
the next day.

Before departing, Cyrus Harding leaned once more over the dark well,
which descended perpendicularly to the level of the sea. He listened
attentively. No noise was heard, not even that of the water, which the
undulations of the surge must sometimes agitate in its depths. A flaming
branch was again thrown in. The sides of the well were lighted up for an
instant, but as at the first time, nothing suspicious was seen.

If some marine monster had been surprised unawares by the retreat of the
water, he would by this time have regained the sea by the subterranean
passage, before the new opening had been offered to him.

Meanwhile, the engineer was standing motionless, his eyes fixed on the
gulf, without uttering a word.

The sailor approached him, and touching his arm, “Captain!” said he.

“What do you want, my friend?” asked the engineer, as if he had returned
from the land of dreams.

“The torches will soon go out.”

“Forward!” replied Cyrus Harding.

The little band left the cavern and began to ascend through the dark
passage. Top closed the rear, still growling every now and then. The
ascent was painful enough. The settlers rested a few minutes in the
upper grotto, which made a sort of landing-place halfway up the long
granite staircase. Then they began to climb again.

Soon fresher air was felt. The drops of water, dried by evaporation, no
longer sparkled on the walls. The flaring torches began to grow dim. The
one which Neb carried went out, and if they did not wish to find their
way in the dark, they must hasten.

This was done, and a little before four o’clock, at the moment when the
sailor’s torch went out in its turn, Cyrus Harding and his companions
passed out of the passage.



Chapter 19

The next day, the 22nd of May, the arrangement of their new dwelling
was commenced. In fact, the settlers longed to exchange the insufficient
shelter of the Chimneys for this large and healthy retreat, in the midst
of solid rock, and sheltered from the water both of the sea and sky.
Their former dwelling was not, however, to be entirely abandoned, for
the engineer intended to make a manufactory of it for important works.
Cyrus Harding’s first care was to find out the position of the front of
Granite House from the outside. He went to the beach, and as the
pickaxe when it escaped from the hands of the reporter must have fallen
perpendicularly to the foot of the cliff, the finding it would be
sufficient to show the place where the hole had been pierced in the
granite.

The pickaxe was easily found, and the hole could be seen in a
perpendicular line above the spot where it was stuck in the sand. Some
rock pigeons were already flying in and out of the narrow opening; they
evidently thought that Granite House had been discovered on purpose for
them. It was the engineer’s intention to divide the right portion of the
cavern into several rooms, preceded by an entrance passage, and to light
it by means of five windows and a door, pierced in the front. Pencroft
was much pleased with the five windows, but he could not understand the
use of the door, since the passage offered a natural staircase, through
which it would always be easy to enter Granite House.

“My friend,” replied Harding, “if it is easy for us to reach our
dwelling by this passage, it will be equally easy for others besides
us. I mean, on the contrary, to block up that opening, to seal it
hermetically, and, if it is necessary, to completely hide the entrance
by making a dam, and thus causing the water of the lake to rise.”

“And how shall we get in?” asked the sailor.

“By an outside ladder,” replied Cyrus Harding, “a rope ladder, which,
once drawn up, will render access to our dwelling impossible.”

“But why so many precautions?” asked Pencroft. “As yet we have seen no
dangerous animals. As to our island being inhabited by natives, I don’t
believe it!”

“Are you quite sure of that, Pencroft?” asked the engineer, looking at
the sailor.

“Of course we shall not be quite sure, till we have explored it in every
direction,” replied Pencroft.

“Yes,” said Harding, “for we know only a small portion of it as yet. But
at any rate, if we have no enemies in the interior, they may come from
the exterior, for parts of the Pacific are very dangerous. We must be
provided against every contingency.”

Cyrus Harding spoke wisely; and without making any further objection,
Pencroft prepared to execute his orders.

The front of Granite House was then to be lighted by five windows and a
door, besides a large bay window and some smaller oval ones, which would
admit plenty of light to enter into the marvelous nave which was to be
their chief room. This facade, situated at a height of eighty feet above
the ground, was exposed to the east, and the rising sun saluted it with
its first rays. It was found to be just at that part of the cliff which
was between the projection at the mouth of the Mercy and a perpendicular
line traced above the heap of rocks which formed the Chimneys. Thus
the winds from the northeast would only strike it obliquely, for it was
protected by the projection. Besides, until the window-frames were made,
the engineer meant to close the openings with thick shutters, which
would prevent either wind or rain from entering, and which could be
concealed in need.

The first work was to make the openings. This would have taken too long
with the pickaxe alone, and it is known that Harding was an ingenious
man. He had still a quantity of nitro-glycerine at his disposal, and he
employed it usefully. By means of this explosive substance the rock was
broken open at the very places chosen by the engineer. Then, with the
pickaxe and spade, the windows and doors were properly shaped, the
jagged edges were smoothed off, and a few days after the beginning of
the work, Granite House was abundantly lighted by the rising sun,
whose rays penetrated into its most secret recesses. Following the
plan proposed by Cyrus Harding, the space was to be divided into five
compartments looking out on the sea; to the right, an entry with a
door, which would meet the ladder; then a kitchen, thirty feet long; a
dining-room, measuring forty feet; a sleeping-room, of equal size; and
lastly, a “Visitor’s room,” petitioned for by Pencroft, and which was
next to the great hall. These rooms, or rather this suite of rooms,
would not occupy all the depth of the cave. There would be also a
corridor and a storehouse, in which their tools, provisions, and stores
would be kept. All the productions of the island, the flora as well as
the fauna, were to be there in the best possible state of preservation,
and completely sheltered from the damp. There was no want of space, so
that each object could be methodically arranged. Besides, the colonists
had still at their disposal the little grotto above the great cavern,
which was like the garret of the new dwelling.

This plan settled, it had only to be put into execution. The miners
became brickmakers again, then the bricks were brought to the foot of
Granite House. Till then, Harding and his companions had only entered
the cavern by the long passage. This mode of communication obliged them
first to climb Prospect Heights, making a detour by the river’s bank,
and then to descend two hundred feet through the passage, having to
climb as far when they wished to return to the plateau. This was a great
loss of time, and was also very fatiguing. Cyrus Harding, therefore,
resolved to proceed without any further delay to the fabrication of
a strong rope ladder, which, once raised, would render Granite House
completely inaccessible.

This ladder was manufactured with extreme care, and its uprights, formed
of the twisted fibers of a species of cane, had the strength of a thick
cable. As to the rounds, they were made of a sort of red cedar, with
light, strong branches; and this apparatus was wrought by the masterly
hand of Pencroft.

Other ropes were made with vegetable fibers, and a sort of crane with a
tackle was fixed at the door. In this way bricks could easily be
raised into Granite House. The transport of the materials being thus
simplified, the arrangement of the interior could begin immediately.
There was no want of lime, and some thousands of bricks were there
ready to be used. The framework of the partitions was soon raised, very
roughly at first, and in a short time, the cave was divided into rooms
and storehouses, according to the plan agreed upon.

These different works progressed rapidly under the direction of the
engineer, who himself handled the hammer and the trowel. No labor came
amiss to Cyrus Harding, who thus set an example to his intelligent and
zealous companions. They worked with confidence, even gaily, Pencroft
always having some joke to crack, sometimes carpenter, sometimes
rope-maker, sometimes mason, while he communicated his good humor to
all the members of their little world. His faith in the engineer
was complete; nothing could disturb it. He believed him capable of
undertaking anything and succeeding in everything. The question of boots
and clothes--assuredly a serious question,--that of light during the
winter months, utilizing the fertile parts of the island, transforming
the wild flora into cultivated flora, it all appeared easy to him; Cyrus
Harding helping, everything would be done in time. He dreamed of canals
facilitating the transport of the riches of the ground; workings
of quarries and mines; machines for every industrial manufacture;
railroads; yes, railroads! of which a network would certainly one day
cover Lincoln Island.

The engineer let Pencroft talk. He did not put down the aspirations of
this brave heart. He knew how communicable confidence is; he even smiled
to hear him speak, and said nothing of the uneasiness for the future
which he felt. In fact, in that part of the Pacific, out of the course
of vessels, it was to be feared that no help would ever come to them. It
was on themselves, on themselves alone, that the settlers must depend,
for the distance of Lincoln Island from all other land was such, that
to hazard themselves in a boat, of a necessarily inferior construction,
would be a serious and perilous thing.

“But,” as the sailor said, “they quite took the wind out of the sails of
the Robinsons, for whom everything was done by a miracle.”

In fact, they were energetic; an energetic man will succeed where an
indolent one would vegetate and inevitably perish.

Herbert distinguished himself in these works. He was intelligent and
active; understanding quickly, he performed well; and Cyrus Harding
became more and more attached to the boy. Herbert had a lively and
reverent love for the engineer. Pencroft saw the close sympathy which
existed between the two, but he was not in the least jealous. Neb
was Neb: he was what he would be always, courage, zeal, devotion,
self-denial personified. He had the same faith in his master that
Pencroft had, but he showed it less vehemently. When the sailor was
enthusiastic, Neb always looked as if he would say, “Nothing could be
more natural.” Pencroft and he were great friends.

As to Gideon Spilett, he took part in the common work, and was not less
skilful in it than his companions, which always rather astonished
the sailor. A “journalist,” clever, not only in understanding, but in
performing everything.

The ladder was finally fixed on the 28th of May. There were not less
than a hundred rounds in this perpendicular height of eighty feet.
Harding had been able, fortunately, to divide it in two parts, profiting
by an overhanging of the cliff which made a projection forty feet above
the ground. This projection, carefully leveled by the pickaxe, made a
sort of platform, to which they fixed the first ladder, of which the
oscillation was thus diminished one-half, and a rope permitted it to be
raised to the level of Granite House. As to the second ladder, it was
secured both at its lower part, which rested on the projection, and at
its upper end, which was fastened to the door. In short the ascent had
been made much easier. Besides, Cyrus Harding hoped later to establish
an hydraulic apparatus, which would avoid all fatigue and loss of time,
for the inhabitants of Granite House.

The settlers soon became habituated to the use of this ladder. They were
light and active, and Pencroft, as a sailor, accustomed to run up
the masts and shrouds, was able to give them lessons. But it was also
necessary to give them to Top. The poor dog, with his four paws, was
not formed for this sort of exercise. But Pencroft was such a zealous
master, that Top ended by properly performing his ascents, and soon
mounted the ladder as readily as his brethren in the circus. It need not
be said that the sailor was proud of his pupil. However, more than once
Pencroft hoisted him on his back, which Top never complained of.

It must be mentioned here, that during these works, which were actively
conducted, for the bad season was approaching, the alimentary question
was not neglected. Every day, the reporter and Herbert, who had been
voted purveyors to the colony, devoted some hours to the chase. As yet,
they only hunted in Jacamar Wood, on the left of the river, because, for
want of a bridge or boat, the Mercy had not yet been crossed. All the
immense woods, to which the name of the Forests of the Far West had been
given, were not explored. They reserved this important excursion for the
first fine days of the next spring. But Jacamar Wood was full of game;
kangaroos and boars abounded, and the hunters’ iron-tipped spears and
bows and arrows did wonders. Besides, Herbert discovered towards the
southwest point of the lagoon a natural warren, a slightly damp meadow,
covered with willows and aromatic herbs which scented the air, such
as thyme, basil, savory, all the sweet-scented species of the labiated
plants, which the rabbits appeared to be particularly fond of.

On the reporter observing that since the table was spread for the
rabbits, it was strange that the rabbits themselves should be wanting,
the two sportsmen carefully explored the warren. At any rate, it
produced an abundance of useful plants, and a naturalist would have had
a good opportunity of studying many specimens of the vegetable kingdom.
Herbert gathered several shoots of the basil, rosemary, balm, betony,
etc., which possess different medicinal properties, some pectoral,
astringent, febrifuge, others anti-spasmodic, or anti-rheumatic. When,
afterwards, Pencroft asked the use of this collection of herbs,--

“For medicine,” replied the lad, “to treat us when we are ill.”

“Why should we be ill, since there are no doctors in the island?” asked
Pencroft quite seriously.

There was no reply to be made to that, but the lad went on with his
collection all the same, and it was well received at Granite House.
Besides these medicinal herbs, he added a plant known in North America
as “Oswego tea,” which made an excellent beverage.

At last, by searching thoroughly, the hunters arrived at the real site
of the warren. There the ground was perforated like a sieve.

“Here are the burrows!” cried Herbert.

“Yes,” replied the reporter, “so I see.”

“But are they inhabited?”

“That is the question.”

This was soon answered. Almost immediately, hundreds of little animals,
similar to rabbits, fled in every direction, with such rapidity that
even Top could not overtake them. Hunters and dog ran in vain; these
rodents escaped them easily. But the reporter resolved not to leave the
place, until he had captured at least half-a-dozen of the quadrupeds.
He wished to stock their larder first, and domesticate those which they
might take later. It would not have been difficult to do this, with a
few snares stretched at the openings of the burrows. But at this moment
they had neither snares, nor anything to make them of. They must,
therefore, be satisfied with visiting each hole, and rummaging in it
with a stick, hoping by dint of patience to do what could not be done in
any other way.

At last, after half an hour, four rodents were taken in their holes.
They were similar to their European brethren, and are commonly known by
the name of American rabbits.

This produce of the chase was brought back to Granite House, and figured
at the evening repast. The tenants of the warren were not at all to be
despised, for they were delicious. It was a valuable resource of the
colony, and it appeared to be inexhaustible.

On the 31st of May the partitions were finished. The rooms had now only
to be furnished, and this would be work for the long winter days. A
chimney was established in the first room, which served as a kitchen.
The pipe destined to conduct the smoke outside gave some trouble to
these amateur bricklayers. It appeared simplest to Harding to make it of
brick clay; as creating an outlet for it to the upper plateau was not to
be thought of, a hole was pierced in the granite above the window of
the kitchen, and the pipe met it like that of an iron stove. Perhaps
the winds which blew directly against the facade would make the chimney
smoke, but these winds were rare, and besides, Master Neb, the cook, was
not so very particular about that.

When these interior arrangements were finished, the engineer occupied
himself in blocking up the outlet by the lake, so as to prevent any
access by that way. Masses of rock were rolled to the entrance and
strongly cemented together. Cyrus Harding did not yet realize his plan
of drowning this opening under the waters of the lake, by restoring
them to their former level by means of a dam. He contented himself with
hiding the obstruction with grass and shrubs, which were planted in the
interstices of the rocks, and which next spring would sprout thickly.
However, he used the waterfall so as to lead a small stream of fresh
water to the new dwelling. A little trench, made below their level,
produced this result; and this derivation from a pure and inexhaustible
source yielded twenty-five or thirty gallons a day. There would never be
any want of water at Granite House. At last all was finished, and it was
time, for the bad season was near. Thick shutters closed the windows of
the facade, until the engineer had time to make glass.

Gideon Spilett had very artistically arranged on the rocky projections
around the windows plants of different kinds, as well as long streaming
grass, so that the openings were picturesquely framed in green, which
had a pleasing effect.

The inhabitants of this solid, healthy, and secure dwelling, could not
but be charmed with their work. The view from the windows extended over
a boundless horizon, which was closed by the two Mandible Capes on the
north, and Claw Cape on the south. All Union Bay was spread before them.
Yes, our brave settlers had reason to be satisfied, and Pencroft was
lavish in his praise of what he humorously called, “his apartments on
the fifth floor above the ground!”



Chapter 20

The winter season set in with the month of June, which corresponds with
the month of December in the Northern Hemisphere. It began with showers
and squalls, which succeeded each other without intermission. The
tenants of Granite House could appreciate the advantages of a dwelling
which sheltered them from the inclement weather. The Chimneys would have
been quite insufficient to protect them against the rigor of winter, and
it was to be feared that the high tides would make another irruption.
Cyrus Harding had taken precautions against this contingency, so as
to preserve as much as possible the forge and furnace which were
established there.

During the whole of the month of June the time was employed in different
occupations, which excluded neither hunting nor fishing, the larder
being, therefore, abundantly supplied. Pencroft, so soon as he had
leisure, proposed to set some traps, from which he expected great
results. He soon made some snares with creepers, by the aid of which the
warren henceforth every day furnished its quota of rodents. Neb employed
nearly all his time in salting or smoking meat, which insured their
always having plenty of provisions. The question of clothes was now
seriously discussed, the settlers having no other garments than those
they wore when the balloon threw them on the island. These clothes were
warm and good; they had taken great care of them as well as of their
linen, and they were perfectly whole, but they would soon need to be
replaced. Moreover, if the winter was severe, the settlers would suffer
greatly from cold.

On this subject the ingenuity of Harding was at fault. They must provide
for their most pressing wants, settle their dwelling, and lay in a
store of food; thus the cold might come upon them before the question
of clothes had been settled. They must therefore make up their minds to
pass this first winter without additional clothing. When the fine season
came round again, they would regularly hunt those musmons which had been
seen on the expedition to Mount Franklin, and the wool once collected,
the engineer would know how to make it into strong warm stuff.... How?
He would consider.

“Well, we are free to roast ourselves at Granite House!” said Pencroft.
“There are heaps of fuel, and no reason for sparing it.”

“Besides,” added Gideon Spilett, “Lincoln Island is not situated under
a very high latitude, and probably the winters here are not severe. Did
you not say, Cyrus, that this thirty-fifth parallel corresponded to that
of Spain in the other hemisphere?”

“Doubtless,” replied the engineer, “but some winters in Spain are very
cold! No want of snow and ice; and perhaps Lincoln Island is just as
rigorously tried. However, it is an island, and as such, I hope that
the temperature will be more moderate.”

“Why, captain?” asked Herbert.

“Because the sea, my boy, may be considered as an immense reservoir, in
which is stored the heat of the summer. When winter comes, it restores
this heat, which insures for the regions near the ocean a medium
temperature, less high in summer, but less low in winter.”

“We shall prove that,” replied Pencroft. “But I don’t want to bother
myself about whether it will be cold or not. One thing is certain, that
is that the days are already short, and the evenings long. Suppose we
talk about the question of light.”

“Nothing is easier,” replied Harding.

“To talk about?” asked the sailor.

“To settle.”

“And when shall we begin?”

“To-morrow, by having a seal hunt.”

“To make candles?”

“Yes.”

Such was the engineer’s project; and it was quite feasible, since he had
lime and sulphuric acid, while the amphibians of the islet would furnish
the fat necessary for the manufacture.

They were now at the 4th of June. It was Whit Sunday and they agreed to
observe this feast. All work was suspended, and prayers were offered
to Heaven. But these prayers were now thanksgivings. The settlers in
Lincoln Island were no longer the miserable castaways thrown on the
islet. They asked for nothing more--they gave thanks. The next day, the
5th of June, in rather uncertain weather, they set out for the islet.
They had to profit by the low tide to cross the Channel, and it was
agreed that they would construct, for this purpose, as well as they
could, a boat which would render communication so much easier, and
would also permit them to ascend the Mercy, at the time of their grand
exploration of the southwest of the island, which was put off till the
first fine days.

The seals were numerous, and the hunters, armed with their iron-tipped
spears, easily killed half-a-dozen. Neb and Pencroft skinned them, and
only brought back to Granite House their fat and skin, this skin being
intended for the manufacture of boots.

The result of the hunt was this: nearly three hundred pounds of fat, all
to be employed in the fabrication of candles.

The operation was extremely simple, and if it did not yield absolutely
perfect results, they were at least very useful. Cyrus Harding would
only have had at his disposal sulphuric acid, but by heating this acid
with the neutral fatty bodies he could separate the glycerine; then from
this new combination, he easily separated the olein, the margarin, and
the stearin, by employing boiling water. But to simplify the operation,
he preferred to saponify the fat by means of lime. By this he obtained a
calcareous soap, easy to decompose by sulphuric acid, which precipitated
the lime into the state of sulphate, and liberated the fatty acids.

From these three acids-oleic, margaric, and stearic-the first, being
liquid, was driven out by a sufficient pressure. As to the two others,
they formed the very substance of which the candles were to be molded.

This operation did not last more than four and twenty hours. The wicks,
after several trials, were made of vegetable fibers, and dipped in the
liquefied substance, they formed regular stearic candles, molded by the
hand, which only wanted whiteness and polish. They would not doubtless
have the advantages of the wicks which are impregnated with boracic
acid, and which vitrify as they burn and are entirely consumed, but
Cyrus Harding having manufactured a beautiful pair of snuffers, these
candles would be greatly appreciated during the long evenings in Granite
House.

During this month there was no want of work in the interior of their new
dwelling. The joiners had plenty to do. They improved their tools, which
were very rough, and added others also.

Scissors were made among other things, and the settlers were at last
able to cut their hair, and also to shave, or at least trim their
beards. Herbert had none, Neb but little, but their companions were
bristling in a way which justified the making of the said scissors.

The manufacture of a hand-saw cost infinite trouble, but at last an
instrument was obtained which, when vigorously handled, could divide the
ligneous fibers of the wood. They then made tables, seats, cupboards,
to furnish the principal rooms, and bedsteads, of which all the bedding
consisted of grass mattresses. The kitchen, with its shelves, on which
rested the cooking utensils, its brick stove, looked very well, and Neb
worked away there as earnestly as if he was in a chemist’s laboratory.

But the joiners had soon to be replaced by carpenters. In fact, the
waterfall created by the explosion rendered the construction of two
bridges necessary, one on Prospect Heights, the other on the shore. Now
the plateau and the shore were transversely divided by a watercourse,
which had to be crossed to reach the northern part of the island. To
avoid it the colonists had been obliged to make a considerable detour,
by climbing up to the source of the Red Creek. The simplest thing was to
establish on the plateau, and on the shore, two bridges from twenty to
five and twenty feet in length. All the carpenter’s work that was needed
was to clear some trees of their branches: this was a business of some
days. Directly the bridges were established, Neb and Pencroft profited
by them to go to the oyster-bed which had been discovered near the
downs. They dragged with them a sort of rough cart, which replaced the
former inconvenient hurdle, and brought back some thousands of oysters,
which soon increased among the rocks and formed a bed at the mouth of
the Mercy. These molluscs were of excellent quality, and the colonists
consumed some daily.

It has been seen that Lincoln Island, although its inhabitants had as
yet only explored a small portion of it, already contributed to almost
all their wants. It was probable that if they hunted into its most
secret recesses, in all the wooded part between the Mercy and Reptile
Point, they would find new treasures.

The settlers in Lincoln Island had still one privation. There was no
want of meat, nor of vegetable products; those ligneous roots which
they had found, when subjected to fermentation, gave them an acid drink,
which was preferable to cold water; they also made sugar, without canes
or beet-roots, by collecting the liquor which distils from the “acer
saceharinum,” a sort of maple-tree, which flourishes in all the temperate
zones, and of which the island possessed a great number; they made
a very agreeable tea by employing the herbs brought from the warren;
lastly, they had an abundance of salt, the only mineral which is used in
food... but bread was wanting.

Perhaps in time the settlers could replace this want by some equivalent,
it was possible that they might find the sago or the breadfruit tree
among the forests of the south, but they had not as yet met with these
precious trees. However, Providence came directly to their aid, in an
infinitesimal proportion it is true, but Cyrus Harding, with all his
intelligence, all his ingenuity, would never have been able to produce
that which, by the greatest chance, Herbert one day found in the lining
of his waistcoat, which he was occupied in setting to rights.

On this day, as it was raining in torrents, the settlers were assembled
in the great hall in Granite House, when the lad cried out all at
once,--

“Look here, captain--A grain of corn!”

And he showed his companions a grain--a single grain--which from a hole
in his pocket had got into the lining of his waistcoat.

The presence of this grain was explained by the fact that Herbert, when
at Richmond, used to feed some pigeons, of which Pencroft had made him a
present.

“A grain of corn?” said the engineer quickly.

“Yes, captain; but one, only one!”

“Well, my boy,” said Pencroft, laughing, “we’re getting on capitally,
upon my word! What shall we make with one grain of corn?”

“We will make bread of it,” replied Cyrus Harding.

“Bread, cakes, tarts!” replied the sailor. “Come, the bread that this
grain of corn will make won’t choke us very soon!”

Herbert, not attaching much importance to his discovery, was going to
throw away the grain in question; but Harding took it, examined it,
found that it was in good condition, and looking the sailor full in the
face--“Pencroft,” he asked quietly, “do you know how many ears one grain
of corn can produce?”

“One, I suppose!” replied the sailor, surprised at the question.

“Ten, Pencroft! And do you know how many grains one ear bears?”

“No, upon my word.”

“About eighty!” said Cyrus Harding. “Then, if we plant this grain, at
the first crop we shall reap eight hundred grains which at the second
will produce six hundred and forty thousand; at the third, five hundred
and twelve millions; at the fourth, more than four hundred thousands of
millions! There is the proportion.”

Harding’s companions listened without answering. These numbers
astonished them. They were exact, however.

“Yes, my friends,” continued the engineer, “such are the arithmetical
progressions of prolific nature; and yet what is this multiplication
of the grain of corn, of which the ear only bears eight hundred grains,
compared to the poppy-plant, which bears thirty-two thousand seeds; to
the tobacco-plant, which produces three hundred and sixty thousand? In
a few years, without the numerous causes of destruction, which arrests
their fecundity, these plants would overrun the earth.”

But the engineer had not finished his lecture.

“And now, Pencroft,” he continued, “do you know how many bushels four
hundred thousand millions of grains would make?”

“No,” replied the sailor; “but what I do know is, that I am nothing
better than a fool!”

“Well, they would make more than three millions, at a hundred and thirty
thousand a bushel, Pencroft.”

“Three millions!” cried Pencroft.

“Three millions.”

“In four years?”

“In four years,” replied Cyrus Harding, “and even in two years, if, as I
hope, in this latitude we can obtain two crops a year.”

At that, according to his usual custom, Pencroft could not reply
otherwise than by a tremendous hurrah.

“So, Herbert,” added the engineer, “you have made a discovery of great
importance to us. Everything, my friends, everything can serve us in the
condition in which we are. Do not forget that, I beg of you.”

“No, captain, no, we shan’t forget it,” replied Pencroft; “and if ever
I find one of those tobacco-seeds, which multiply by three hundred and
sixty thousand, I assure you I won’t throw it away! And now, what must
we do?”

“We must plant this grain,” replied Herbert.

“Yes,” added Gideon Spilett, “and with every possible care, for it bears
in itself our future harvests.”

“Provided it grows!” cried the sailor.

“It will grow,” replied Cyrus Harding.

This was the 20th of June. The time was then propitious for sowing this
single precious grain of corn. It was first proposed to plant it in
a pot, but upon reflection it was decided to leave it to nature, and
confide it to the earth. This was done that very day, and it is needless
to add, that every precaution was taken that the experiment might
succeed.

The weather having cleared, the settlers climbed the height above
Granite House. There, on the plateau, they chose a spot, well sheltered
from the wind, and exposed to all the heat of the midday sun. The place
was cleared, carefully weeded, and searched for insects and worms;
then a bed of good earth, improved with a little lime, was made; it was
surrounded by a railing; and the grain was buried in the damp earth.

Did it not seem as if the settlers were laying the first stone of some
edifice? It recalled to Pencroft the day on which he lighted his only
match, and all the anxiety of the operation. But this time the thing
was more serious. In fact, the castaways would have been always able
to procure fire, in some mode or other, but no human power could supply
another grain of corn, if unfortunately this should be lost!



Chapter 21

From this time Pencroft did not let a single day pass without going to
visit what he gravely called his “corn-field.” And woe to the insects
which dared to venture there! No mercy was shown them.

Towards the end of the month of June, after incessant rain, the weather
became decidedly colder, and on the 29th a Fahrenheit thermometer
would certainly have announced only twenty degrees above zero, that is
considerably below the freezing-point. The next day, the 30th of June,
the day which corresponds to the 31st of December in the northern year,
was a Friday. Neb remarked that the year finished on a bad day, but
Pencroft replied that naturally the next would begin on a good one,
which was better.

At any rate it commenced by very severe cold. Ice accumulated at the
mouth of the Mercy, and it was not long before the whole expanse of the
lake was frozen.

The settlers had frequently been obliged to renew their store of wood.
Pencroft also had wisely not waited till the river was frozen, but had
brought enormous rafts of wood to their destination. The current was
an indefatigable moving power, and it was employed in conveying the
floating wood to the moment when the frost enchained it. To the fuel
which was so abundantly supplied by the forest, they added several
cartloads of coal, which had to be brought from the foot of the spurs of
Mount Franklin. The powerful heat of the coal was greatly appreciated in
the low temperature, which on the 4th of July fell to eight degrees of
Fahrenheit, that is, thirteen degrees below zero. A second fireplace had
been established in the dining-room, where they all worked together at
their different avocations. During this period of cold, Cyrus Harding
had great cause to congratulate himself on having brought to Granite
House the little stream of water from Lake Grant. Taken below the frozen
surface, and conducted through the passage, it preserved its fluidity,
and arrived at an interior reservoir which had been hollowed out at the
back part of the storeroom, while the overflow ran through the well to
the sea.

About this time, the weather being extremely dry, the colonists, clothed
as warmly as possible, resolved to devote a day to the exploration of
that part of the island between the Mercy and Claw Cape. It was a wide
extent of marshy land, and they would probably find good sport, for
water-birds ought to swarm there.

They reckoned that it would be about eight or nine miles to go there,
and as much to return, so that the whole of the day would be occupied.
As an unknown part of the island was about to be explored, the whole
colony took part in the expedition. Accordingly, on the 5th of July, at
six o’clock in the morning, when day had scarcely broken, Cyrus Harding,
Gideon Spilett, Herbert, Neb, and Pencroft, armed with spears, snares,
bows and arrows, and provided with provisions, left Granite House,
preceded by Top, who bounded before them.

Their shortest way was to cross the Mercy on the ice, which then covered
it.

“But,” as the engineer justly observed, “that could not take the place
of a regular bridge!” So, the construction of a regular bridge was noted
in the list of future works.

It was the first time that the settlers had set foot on the right bank
of the Mercy, and ventured into the midst of those gigantic and superb
coniferae now sprinkled over with snow.

But they had not gone half a mile when from a thicket a whole family of
quadrupeds, who had made a home there, disturbed by Top, rushed forth
into the open country.

“Ah! I should say those are foxes!” cried Herbert, when he saw the troop
rapidly decamping.

They were foxes, but of a very large size, who uttered a sort of
barking, at which Top seemed to be very much astonished, for he stopped
short in the chase, and gave the swift animals time to disappear.

The dog had reason to be surprised, as he did not know Natural History.
But, by their barking, these foxes, with reddish-gray hair, black tails
terminating in a white tuft, had betrayed their origin. So Herbert
was able, without hesitating, to give them their real name of “Arctic
foxes.” They are frequently met with in Chile, in the Falkland Islands,
and in all parts of America traversed by the thirtieth and fortieth
parallels. Herbert much regretted that Top had not been able to catch
one of these carnivora.

“Are they good to eat?” asked Pencroft, who only regarded the
representatives of the fauna in the island from one special point of
view.

“No,” replied Herbert; “but zoologists have not yet found out if the
eye of these foxes is diurnal or nocturnal, or whether it is correct to
class them in the genus dog, properly so called.”

Harding could not help smiling on hearing the lad’s reflection, which
showed a thoughtful mind. As to the sailor, from the moment when he
found that the foxes were not classed in the genus eatable, they were
nothing to him. However, when a poultry-yard was established at Granite
House, he observed that it would be best to take some precautions
against a probable visit from these four-legged plunderers, and no one
disputed this.

After having turned the point, the settlers saw a long beach washed by
the open sea. It was then eight o’clock in the morning. The sky was very
clear, as it often is after prolonged cold; but warmed by their walk,
neither Harding nor his companions felt the sharpness of the atmosphere
too severely. Besides there was no wind, which made it much more
bearable. A brilliant sun, but without any calorific action, was just
issuing from the ocean. The sea was as tranquil and blue as that of a
Mediterranean gulf, when the sky is clear. Claw Cape, bent in the form
of a yataghan, tapered away nearly four miles to the southeast. To
the left the edge of the marsh was abruptly ended by a little point.
Certainly, in this part of Union Bay, which nothing sheltered from the
open sea, not even a sandbank, ships beaten by the east winds would
have found no shelter. They perceived by the tranquillity of the sea, in
which no shallows troubled the waters, by its uniform color, which was
stained by no yellow shades, by the absence of even a reef, that the
coast was steep and that the ocean there covered a deep abyss. Behind in
the west, but at a distance of four miles, rose the first trees of the
forests of the Far West. They might have believed themselves to be on
the desolate coast of some island in the Antarctic regions which the ice
had invaded. The colonists halted at this place for breakfast. A fire of
brushwood and dried seaweed was lighted, and Neb prepared the breakfast
of cold meat, to which he added some cups of Oswego tea.

While eating they looked around them. This part of Lincoln Island was
very sterile, and contrasted with all the western part. The reporter
was thus led to observe that if chance had thrown them at first on the
shore, they would have had but a deplorable idea of their future domain.

“I believe that we should not have been able to reach it,” replied the
engineer, “for the sea is deep, and there is not a rock on which we
could have taken refuge. Before Granite House, at least, there were
sandbanks, an islet, which multiplied our chances of safety. Here,
nothing but the depths!”

“It is singular enough,” remarked Spilett, “that this comparatively
small island should present such varied ground. This diversity of
aspect, logically only belongs to continents of a certain extent. One
would really say, that the western part of Lincoln Island, so rich and
so fertile, is washed by the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico, and that
its shores to the north and the southeast extend over a sort of Arctic
sea.”

“You are right, my dear Spilett,” replied Cyrus Harding, “I have also
observed this. I think the form and also the nature of this island
strange. It is a summary of all the aspects which a continent presents,
and I should not be surprised if it was a continent formerly.”

“What! a continent in the middle of the Pacific?” cried Pencroft.

“Why not?” replied Cyrus Harding. “Why should not Australia, New
Ireland, Australasia, united to the archipelagoes of the Pacific, have
once formed a sixth part of the world, as important as Europe or Asia,
as Africa or the two Americas? To my mind, it is quite possible that all
these islands, emerging from this vast ocean, are but the summits of
a continent, now submerged, but which was above the waters at a
prehistoric period.”

“As the Atlantis was formerly,” replied Herbert.

“Yes, my boy... if, however, it existed.”

“And would Lincoln Island have been a part of that continent?” asked
Pencroft.

“It is probable,” replied Cyrus Harding, “and that would sufficiently,
explain the variety of productions which are seen on its surface.”

“And the great number of animals which still inhabit it,” added Herbert.

“Yes, my boy,” replied the engineer, “and you furnish me with an
argument to support my theory. It is certain, after what we have seen,
that animals are numerous in this island, and what is more strange, that
the species are extremely varied. There is a reason for that, and to
me it is that Lincoln Island may have formerly been a part of some vast
continent which had gradually sunk below the Pacific.”

“Then, some fine day,” said Pencroft, who did not appear to be entirely
convinced, “the rest of this ancient continent may disappear in its
turn, and there will be nothing between America and Asia.”

“Yes,” replied Harding, “there will be new continents which millions and
millions of animalculae are building at this moment.”

“And what are these masons?” asked Pencroft.

“Coral insects,” replied Cyrus Harding. “By constant work they made the
island of Clermont-Tonnerre, and numerous other coral islands in the
Pacific Ocean. Forty-seven millions of these insects are needed to weigh
a grain, and yet, with the sea-salt they absorb, the solid elements of
water which they assimilate, these animalculae produce limestone, and
this limestone forms enormous submarine erections, of which the hardness
and solidity equal granite. Formerly, at the first periods of creation,
nature employing fire, heaved up the land, but now she entrusts to these
microscopic creatures the task of replacing this agent, of which
the dynamic power in the interior of the globe has evidently
diminished--which is proved by the number of volcanoes on the surface of
the earth, now actually extinct. And I believe that centuries succeeding
to centuries, and insects to insects, this Pacific may one day be
changed into a vast continent, which new generations will inhabit and
civilize in their turn.”

“That will take a long time,” said Pencroft.

“Nature has time for it,” replied the engineer.

“But what would be the use of new continents?” asked Herbert. “It
appears to me that the present extent of habitable countries is
sufficient for humanity. Yet nature does nothing uselessly.”

“Nothing uselessly, certainly,” replied the engineer, “but this is
how the necessity of new continents for the future, and exactly on the
tropical zone occupied by the coral islands, may be explained. At least
to me this explanation appears plausible.”

“We are listening, captain,” said Herbert.

“This is my idea: philosophers generally admit that some day our globe
will end, or rather that animal and vegetable life will no longer be
possible, because of the intense cold to which it will be subjected.
What they are not agreed upon, is the cause of this cold. Some think
that it will arise from the falling of the temperature, which the
sun will experience after millions of years; others, from the gradual
extinction of the fires in the interior of our globe, which have a
greater influence on it than is generally supposed. I hold to this last
hypothesis, grounding it on the fact that the moon is really a cold
star, which is no longer habitable, although the sun continues to throw
on its surface the same amount of heat. If, then, the moon has become
cold, it is because the interior fires to which, as do all the stars of
the stellar world, it owes its origin, are completely extinct. Lastly,
whatever may be the cause, our globe will become cold some day, but this
cold will only operate gradually. What will happen, then? The temperate
zones, at a more or less distant period, will not be more habitable than
the polar regions now are. Then the population of men, as well as the
animals, will flow towards the latitudes which are more directly under
the solar influence. An immense emigration will take place. Europe,
Central Asia, North America, will gradually be abandoned, as well as
Australasia and the lower parts of South America. The vegetation will
follow the human emigration. The flora will retreat towards the Equator
at the same time as the fauna. The central parts of South America and
Africa will be the continents chiefly inhabited. The Laplanders and the
Samoides will find the climate of the polar regions on the shores of the
Mediterranean. Who can say, that at this period, the equatorial regions
will not be too small, to contain and nourish terrestrial humanity? Now,
may not provident nature, so as to give refuge to all the vegetable
and animal emigration, be at present laying the foundation of a new
continent under the Equator, and may she not have entrusted these
insects with the construction of it? I have often thought of all these
things, my friends, and I seriously believe that the aspect of our
globe will some day be completely changed; that by the raising of new
continents the sea will cover the old, and that, in future ages,
a Columbus will go to discover the islands of Chimborazo, of the
Himalayas, or of Mont Blanc, remains of a submerged America, Asia,
and Europe. Then these new continents will become, in their turn,
uninhabitable; heat will die away, as does the heat from a body when
the soul has left it; and life will disappear from the globe, if not for
ever, at least for a period. Perhaps then, our spheroid will rest--will
be left to death--to revive some day under superior conditions! But
all that, my friends, is the secret of the Author of all things; and
beginning by the work of the insects, I have perhaps let myself be
carried too far, in investigating the secrets of the future.

“My dear Cyrus,” replied Spilett, “these theories are prophecies to me,
and they will be accomplished some day.”

“That is the secret of God,” said the engineer.

“All that is well and good,” then said Pencroft, who had listened with
all his might, “but will you tell me, captain, if Lincoln Island has
been made by your insects?”

“No,” replied Harding; “it is of a purely volcanic origin.”

“Then it will disappear some day?”

“That is probable.”

“I hope we won’t be here then.”

“No, don’t be uneasy, Pencroft; we shall not be here then, as we have no
wish to die here, and hope to get away some time.”

“In the meantime,” replied Gideon Spilett, “let us establish ourselves
here as if forever. There is no use in doing things by halves.”

This ended the conversation. Breakfast was finished, the exploration was
continued, and the settlers arrived at the border of the marshy
region. It was a marsh of which the extent, to the rounded coast which
terminated the island at the southeast, was about twenty square miles.
The soil was formed of clayey flint-earth, mingled with vegetable
matter, such as the remains of rushes, reeds, grass, etc. Here and there
beds of grass, thick as a carpet, covered it. In many places icy pools
sparkled in the sun. Neither rain nor any river, increased by a sudden
swelling, could supply these ponds. They therefore naturally concluded
that the marsh was fed by the infiltrations of the soil and it was
really so. It was also to be feared that during the heat miasmas would
arise, which might produce fevers.

Above the aquatic plants, on the surface of the stagnant water,
fluttered numbers of birds. Wild duck, teal, snipe lived there in
flocks, and those fearless birds allowed themselves to be easily
approached.

One shot from a gun would certainly have brought down some dozen of the
birds, they were so close together. The explorers were, however, obliged
to content themselves with bows and arrows. The result was less, but the
silent arrow had the advantage of not frightening the birds, while the
noise of firearms would have dispersed them to all parts of the marsh.
The hunters were satisfied, for this time, with a dozen ducks, which had
white bodies with a band of cinnamon, a green head, wings black, white,
and red, and flattened beak. Herbert called them tadorns. Top helped in
the capture of these birds, whose name was given to this marshy part of
the island. The settlers had here an abundant reserve of aquatic game.
At some future time they meant to explore it more carefully, and it was
probable that some of the birds there might be domesticated, or at least
brought to the shores of the lake, so that they would be more within
their reach.

About five o’clock in the evening Cyrus Harding and his companions
retraced their steps to their dwelling by traversing Tadorn’s Fens, and
crossed the Mercy on the ice-bridge.

At eight in the evening they all entered Granite House.



Chapter 22

This intense cold lasted till the 15th of August, without, however,
passing the degree of Fahrenheit already mentioned. When the atmosphere
was calm, the low temperature was easily borne, but when the wind blew,
the poor settlers, insufficiently clothed, felt it severely. Pencroft
regretted that Lincoln Island was not the home of a few families of
bears rather than of so many foxes and seals.

“Bears,” said he, “are generally very well dressed, and I ask no more
than to borrow for the winter the warm cloaks which they have on their
backs.”

“But,” replied Neb, laughing, “perhaps the bears would not consent to
give you their cloaks, Pencroft. These beasts are not St. Martins.”

“We would make them do it, Neb, we would make them,” replied Pencroft,
in quite an authoritative tone.

But these formidable carnivora did not exist in the island, or at any
rate they had not yet shown themselves.

In the meanwhile, Herbert, Pencroft, and the reporter occupied
themselves with making traps on Prospect Heights and at the border of
the forest.

According to the sailor, any animal, whatever it was, would be a lawful
prize, and the rodents or carnivora which might get into the new snares
would be well received at Granite House.

The traps were besides extremely simple; being pits dug in the ground,
a platform of branches and grass above, which concealed the opening, and
at the bottom some bait, the scent of which would attract animals. It
must be mentioned also, that they had not been dug at random, but
at certain places where numerous footprints showed that quadrupeds
frequented the ground. They were visited every day, and at three
different times, during the first days, specimens of those Antarctic
foxes which they had already seen on the right bank of the Mercy were
found in them.

“Why, there are nothing but foxes in this country!” cried Pencroft, when
for the third time he drew one of the animals out of the pit. Looking at
it in great disgust, he added, “beasts which are good for nothing!”

“Yes,” said Gideon Spilett, “they are good for something!”

“And what is that?”

“To make bait to attract other creatures!”

The reporter was right, and the traps were henceforward baited with the
foxes carcasses.

The sailor had also made snares from the long tough fibers of a certain
plant, and they were even more successful than the traps. Rarely a day
passed without some rabbits from the warren being caught. It was always
rabbit, but Neb knew how to vary his sauces and the settlers did not
think of complaining.

However, once or twice in the second week of August, the traps supplied
the hunters with other animals more useful than foxes, namely, several
of those small wild boars which had already been seen to the north of
the lake. Pencroft had no need to ask if these beasts were eatable. He
could see that by their resemblance to the pig of America and Europe.

“But these are not pigs,” said Herbert to him, “I warn you of that,
Pencroft.”

“My boy,” replied the sailor, bending over the trap and drawing out one
of these representatives of the family of sus by the little appendage
which served it as a tail. “Let me believe that these are pigs.”

“Why?”

“Because that pleases me!”

“Are you very fond of pig then, Pencroft?”

“I am very fond of pig,” replied the sailor, “particularly of its feet,
and if it had eight instead of four, I should like it twice as much!”

As to the animals in question, they were peccaries belonging to one of
the four species which are included in the family, and they were also of
the species of Tajacu, recognizable by their deep color and the absence
of those long teeth with which the mouths of their congeners are armed.
These peccaries generally live in herds, and it was probable that they
abounded in the woody parts of the island.

At any rate, they were eatable from head to foot, and Pencroft did not
ask more from them.

Towards the 15th of August, the state of the atmosphere was suddenly
moderated by the wind shifting to the northwest. The temperature rose
some degrees, and the accumulated vapor in the air was not long in
resolving into snow. All the island was covered with a sheet of white,
and showed itself to its inhabitants under a new aspect. The snow fell
abundantly for several days, and it soon reached a thickness of two
feet.

The wind also blew with great violence, and at the height of Granite
House the sea could be heard thundering against the reefs. In some
places, the wind, eddying round the corners, formed the snow into tall
whirling columns, resembling those waterspouts which turn round on their
base, and which vessels attack with a shot from a gun. However, the
storm, coming from the northwest, blew across the island, and the
position of Granite House preserved it from a direct attack.

But in the midst of this snow-storm, as terrible as if it had been
produced in some polar country, neither Cyrus Harding nor his companions
could, notwithstanding their wish for it, venture forth, and they
remained shut up for five days, from the 20th to the 25th of August.
They could hear the tempest raging in Jacamar Wood, which would surely
suffer from it. Many of the trees would no doubt be torn up by the
roots, but Pencroft consoled himself by thinking that he would not have
the trouble of cutting them down.

“The wind is turning woodman, let it alone,” he repeated.

Besides, there was no way of stopping it, if they had wished to do so.

How grateful the inhabitants of Granite House then were to Heaven for
having prepared for them this solid and immovable retreat! Cyrus Harding
had also his legitimate share of thanks, but after all, it was Nature
who had hollowed out this vast cavern, and he had only discovered it.
There all were in safety, and the tempest could not reach them. If
they had constructed a house of bricks and wood on Prospect Heights,
it certainly would not have resisted the fury of this storm. As to
the Chimneys, it must have been absolutely uninhabitable, for the sea,
passing over the islet, would beat furiously against it. But here, in
Granite House, in the middle of a solid mass, over which neither the sea
nor air had any influence, there was nothing to fear.

During these days of seclusion the settlers did not remain inactive.

There was no want of wood, cut up into planks, in the storeroom, and
little by little they completed their furnishing; constructing the
most solid of tables and chairs, for material was not spared. Neb and
Pencroft were very proud of this rather heavy furniture, which they
would not have changed on any account.

Then the carpenters became basket-makers, and they did not succeed badly
in this new manufacture. At the point of the lake which projected to the
north, they had discovered an osier-bed in which grew a large number
of purple osiers. Before the rainy season, Pencroft and Herbert had cut
down these useful shrubs, and their branches, well prepared, could now
be effectively employed. The first attempts were somewhat crude, but
in consequence of the cleverness and intelligence of the workmen,
by consulting, and recalling the models which they had seen, and by
emulating each other, the possessions of the colony were soon increased
by several baskets of different sizes. The storeroom was provided with
them, and in special baskets Neb placed his collection of rhizomes,
stone-pine almonds, etc.

During the last week of the month of August the weather moderated again.
The temperature fell a little, and the tempest abated. The colonists
sallied out directly. There was certainly two feet of snow on the shore,
but they were able to walk without much difficulty on the hardened
surface. Cyrus Harding and his companions climbed Prospect Heights.

What a change! The woods, which they had left green, especially in the
part at which the firs predominated, had disappeared under a uniform
color. All was white, from the summit of Mount Franklin to the shore,
the forests, the plains, the lake, the river. The waters of the Mercy
flowed under a roof of ice, which, at each rising and ebbing of the
tide, broke up with loud crashes. Numerous birds fluttered over the
frozen surface of the lake. Ducks and snipe, teal and guillemots were
assembled in thousands. The rocks among which the cascade flowed were
bristling with icicles. One might have said that the water escaped by a
monstrous gargoyle, shaped with all the imagination of an artist of the
Renaissance. As to the damage caused by the storm in the forest, that
could not as yet be ascertained; they would have to wait till the snowy
covering was dissipated.

Gideon Spilett, Pencroft, and Herbert did not miss this opportunity of
going to visit their traps. They did not find them easily, under the
snow with which they were covered. They had also to be careful not to
fall into one or other of them, which would have been both dangerous and
humiliating; to be taken in their own snares! But happily they avoided
this unpleasantness, and found their traps perfectly intact. No animal
had fallen into them, and yet the footprints in the neighborhood were
very numerous, among others, certain very clear marks of claws. Herbert
did not hesitate to affirm that some animal of the feline species had
passed there, which justified the engineer’s opinion that dangerous
beasts existed in Lincoln Island. These animals doubtless generally
lived in the forests of the Far West, but pressed by hunger, they had
ventured as far as Prospect Heights. Perhaps they had smelled out the
inhabitants of Granite House. “Now, what are these feline creatures?”
 asked Pencroft. “They are tigers,” replied Herbert. “I thought those
beasts were only found in hot countries?”

“On the new continent,” replied the lad, “they are found from Mexico to
the Pampas of Buenos Aires. Now, as Lincoln Island is nearly under the
same latitude as the provinces of La Plata, it is not surprising that
tigers are to be met with in it.”

“Well, we must look out for them,” replied Pencroft.

However, the snow soon disappeared, quickly dissolving under the
influence of the rising temperature. Rain fell, and the sheet of white
soon vanished. Notwithstanding the bad weather, the settlers renewed
their stores of different things, stone-pine almonds, rhizomes, syrup
from the maple-tree, for the vegetable part; rabbits from the warren,
agouties, and kangaroos for the animal part. This necessitated several
excursions into the forest, and they found that a great number of trees
had been blown down by the last hurricane. Pencroft and Neb also pushed
with the cart as far as the vein of coal, and brought back several tons
of fuel. They saw in passing that the pottery kiln had been severely
damaged by the wind, at least six feet of it having been blown off.

At the same time as the coal, the store of wood was renewed at Granite
House, and they profited by the current of the Mercy having again become
free, to float down several rafts. They could see that the cold period
was not ended.

A visit was also paid to the Chimneys, and the settlers could not but
congratulate themselves on not having been living there during the
hurricane. The sea had left unquestionable traces of its ravages.
Sweeping over the islet, it had furiously assailed the passages, half
filling them with sand, while thick beds of seaweed covered the rocks.
While Neb, Herbert, and Pencroft hunted or collected wood, Cyrus Harding
and Gideon Spilett busied themselves in putting the Chimneys to rights,
and they found the forge and the bellows almost unhurt, protected as
they had been from the first by the heaps of sand.

The store of fuel had not been made uselessly. The settlers had not done
with the rigorous cold. It is known that, in the Northern Hemisphere,
the month of February is principally distinguished by rapid fallings of
the temperature. It is the same in the Southern Hemisphere, and the end
of the month of August, which is the February of North America, does not
escape this climatic law.

About the 25th, after another change from snow to rain, the wind shifted
to the southeast, and the cold became, suddenly, very severe. According
to the engineer’s calculation, the mercurial column of a Fahrenheit
thermometer would not have marked less than eight degrees below zero,
and this intense cold, rendered still more painful by a sharp gale,
lasted for several days. The colonists were again shut up in Granite
House, and as it was necessary to hermetically seal all the openings
of the facade, only leaving a narrow passage for renewing the air, the
consumption of candles was considerable. To economize them, the cavern
was often only lighted by the blazing hearths, on which fuel was not
spared. Several times, one or other of the settlers descended to the
beach in the midst of ice which the waves heaped up at each tide, but
they soon climbed up again to Granite House, and it was not without pain
and difficulty that their hands could hold to the rounds of the ladder.
In consequence of the intense cold, their fingers felt as if burned when
they touched the rounds. To occupy the leisure hours, which the tenants
of Granite House now had at their disposal, Cyrus Harding undertook an
operation which could be performed indoors.

We know that the settlers had no other sugar at their disposal than
the liquid substance which they drew from the maple, by making deep
incisions in the tree. They contented themselves with collecting this
liquor in jars and employing it in this state for different culinary
purposes, and the more so, as on growing old, this liquid began to
become white and to be of a syrupy consistence.

But there was something better to be made of it, and one day Cyrus
Harding announced that they were going to turn into refiners.

“Refiners!” replied Pencroft. “That is rather a warm trade, I think.”

“Very warm,” answered the engineer.

“Then it will be seasonable!” said the sailor.

This word refining need not awake in the mind thoughts of an elaborate
manufactory with apparatus and numerous workmen. No! to crystallize this
liquor, only an extremely easy operation is required. Placed on the fire
in large earthen pots, it was simply subjected to evaporation, and
soon a scum arose to its surface. As soon as this began to thicken,
Neb carefully removed it with a wooden spatula; this accelerated the
evaporation, and at the same time prevented it from contracting an
empyreumatic flavor.

After boiling for several hours on a hot fire, which did as much good to
the operators as the substance operated upon, the latter was transformed
into a thick syrup. This syrup was poured into clay molds, previously
fabricated in the kitchen stove, and to which they had given various
shapes. The next day this syrup had become cold, and formed cakes
and tablets. This was sugar of rather a reddish color, but nearly
transparent and of a delicious taste.

The cold continued to the middle of September, and the prisoners in
Granite House began to find their captivity rather tedious. Nearly every
day they attempted sorties which they could not prolong. They constantly
worked at the improvement of their dwelling. They talked while working.
Harding instructed his companions in many things, principally explaining
to them the practical applications of science. The colonists had no
library at their disposal; but the engineer was a book which was always
at hand, always open at the page which one wanted, a book which answered
all their questions, and which they often consulted. The time thus
passed away pleasantly, these brave men not appearing to have any fears
for the future.

However, all were anxious to see, if not the fine season, at least the
cessation of the insupportable cold. If only they had been clothed in a
way to meet it, how many excursions they would have attempted, either to
the downs or to Tadorn’s Fens! Game would have been easily approached,
and the chase would certainly have been most productive. But Cyrus
Harding considered it of importance that no one should injure his
health, for he had need of all his hands, and his advice was followed.

But it must be said, that the one who was most impatient of this
imprisonment, after Pencroft perhaps, was Top. The faithful dog found
Granite House very narrow. He ran backwards and forwards from one
room to another, showing in his way how weary he was of being shut
up. Harding often remarked that when he approached the dark well which
communicated with the sea, and of which the orifice opened at the back
of the storeroom, Top uttered singular growlings. He ran round and round
this hole, which had been covered with a wooden lid. Sometimes even he
tried to put his paws under the lid, as if he wished to raise it.
He then yelped in a peculiar way, which showed at once anger and
uneasiness.

The engineer observed this maneuver several times.

What could there be in this abyss to make such an impression on the
intelligent animal? The well led to the sea, that was certain. Could
narrow passages spread from it through the foundations of the island?
Did some marine monster come from time to time, to breathe at the bottom
of this well? The engineer did not know what to think, and could not
refrain from dreaming of many strange improbabilities. Accustomed to go
far into the regions of scientific reality, he would not allow
himself to be drawn into the regions of the strange and almost of the
supernatural; but yet how to explain why Top, one of those sensible dogs
who never waste their time in barking at the moon, should persist in
trying with scent and hearing to fathom this abyss, if there was nothing
there to cause his uneasiness? Top’s conduct puzzled Cyrus Harding even
more than he cared to acknowledge to himself.

At all events, the engineer only communicated his impressions to Gideon
Spilett, for he thought it useless to explain to his companions the
suspicions which arose from what perhaps was only Top’s fancy.

At last the cold ceased. There had been rain, squalls mingled with snow,
hailstorms, gusts of wind, but these inclemencies did not last. The ice
melted, the snow disappeared; the shore, the plateau, the banks of
the Mercy, the forest, again became practicable. This return of spring
delighted the tenants of Granite House, and they soon only passed in it
the hours necessary for eating and sleeping.

They hunted much in the second part of September, which led Pencroft to
again entreat for the firearms, which he asserted had been promised by
Cyrus Harding. The latter, knowing well that without special tools it
would be nearly impossible for him to manufacture a gun which would be
of any use, still drew back and put off the operation to some future
time, observing in his usual dry way, that Herbert and Spilett had
become very skilful archers, so that many sorts of excellent animals,
agouties, kangaroos, capybaras, pigeons, bustards, wild ducks, snipes,
in short, game both with fur and feathers, fell victims to their arrows,
and that, consequently, they could wait. But the obstinate sailor would
listen to nothing of this, and he would give the engineer no peace till
he promised to satisfy his desire. Gideon Spilett, however, supported
Pencroft.

“If, which may be doubted,” said he, “the island is inhabited by wild
beasts, we must think how to fight with and exterminate them. A time may
come when this will be our first duty.”

But at this period, it was not the question of firearms which occupied
Harding, but that of clothes. Those which the settlers wore had passed
this winter, but they would not last until next winter. Skins of
carnivora or the wool of ruminants must be procured at any price, and
since there were plenty of musmons, it was agreed to consult on the
means of forming a flock which might be brought up for the use of the
colony. An enclosure for the domestic animals, a poultry-yard for the
birds, in a word to establish a sort of farm in the island, such were
the two important projects for the fine season.

In consequence and in view of these future establishments, it became
of much importance that they should penetrate into all the yet unknown
parts of Lincoln Island, that is to say, through that thick forest which
extended on the right bank of the Mercy, from its mouth to the extremity
of the Serpentine Peninsula, as well as on the whole of its western
side. But this needed settled weather, and a month must pass before this
exploration could be profitably undertaken.

They therefore waited with some impatience, when an incident occurred
which increased the desire the settlers had to visit the whole of their
domain.

It was the 24th of October. On this day, Pencroft had gone to visit his
traps, which he always kept properly baited. In one of them he found
three animals which would be very welcome for the larder. They were a
female peccary and her two young ones.

Pencroft then returned to Granite House, enchanted with his capture,
and, as usual, he made a great show of his game.

“Come, we shall have a grand feast, captain!” he exclaimed. “And you
too, Mr. Spilett, you will eat some!”

“I shall be very happy,” replied the reporter; “but what is it that I am
going to eat?”

“Suckling-pig.”

“Oh, indeed, suckling-pig, Pencroft? To hear you, I thought that you
were bringing back a young partridge stuffed with truffles!”

“What?” cried Pencroft. “Do you mean to say that you turn up your nose
at suckling-pig?’

“No,” replied Gideon Spilett, without showing any enthusiasm; “provided
one doesn’t eat too much.”

“That’s right, that’s right,” returned the sailor, who was not pleased
whenever he heard his chase made light of. “You like to make objections.
Seven months ago, when we landed on the island, you would have been only
too glad to have met with such game!”

“Well, well,” replied the reporter, “man is never perfect, nor
contented.”

“Now,” said Pencroft, “I hope that Neb will distinguish himself. Look
here! These two little peccaries are not more than three months old!
They will be as tender as quails! Come along, Neb, come! I will look
after the cooking myself.”

And the sailor, followed by Neb, entered the kitchen, where they were
soon absorbed in their culinary labors.

They were allowed to do it in their own way. Neb, therefore, prepared
a magnificent repast--the two little peccaries, kangaroo soup, a smoked
ham, stone-pine almonds, Oswego tea; in fact, all the best that they
had, but among all the dishes figured in the first rank the savory
peccaries.

At five o’clock dinner was served in the dining-room of Granite House.
The kangaroo soup was smoking on the table. They found it excellent.

To the soup succeeded the peccaries, which Pencroft insisted on carving
himself, and of which he served out monstrous portions to each of the
guests.

These suckling-pigs were really delicious, and Pencroft was devouring
his share with great gusto, when all at once a cry and an oath escaped
him.

“What’s the matter?” asked Cyrus Harding.

“The matter? the matter is that I have just broken a tooth!” replied the
sailor.

“What, are there pebbles in your peccaries?” said Gideon Spilett.

“I suppose so,” replied Pencroft, drawing from his lips the object which
had cost him a grinder--!

It was not a pebble--it was a leaden bullet.





PART 2

ABANDONED



Chapter 1

It was now exactly seven months since the balloon voyagers had been
thrown on Lincoln Island. During that time, notwithstanding the
researches they had made, no human being had been discovered. No smoke
even had betrayed the presence of man on the surface of the island. No
vestiges of his handiwork showed that either at an early or at a late
period had man lived there. Not only did it now appear to be uninhabited
by any but themselves, but the colonists were compelled to believe that
it never had been inhabited. And now, all this scaffolding of reasonings
fell before a simple ball of metal, found in the body of an inoffensive
rodent! In fact, this bullet must have issued from a firearm, and who
but a human being could have used such a weapon?

When Pencroft had placed the bullet on the table, his companions looked
at it with intense astonishment. All the consequences likely to result
from this incident, notwithstanding its apparent insignificance,
immediately took possession of their minds. The sudden apparition of a
supernatural being could not have startled them more completely.

Cyrus Harding did not hesitate to give utterance to the suggestions
which this fact, at once surprising and unexpected, could not fail to
raise in his mind. He took the bullet, turned it over and over, rolled
it between his finger and thumb; then, turning to Pencroft, he asked,--

“Are you sure that the peccary wounded by this bullet was not more than
three months old?”

“Not more, captain,” replied Pencroft. “It was still sucking its mother
when I found it in the trap.”

“Well,” said the engineer, “that proves that within three months a
gun-shot was fired in Lincoln Island.”

“And that a bullet,” added Gideon Spilett, “wounded, though not
mortally, this little animal.”

“That is unquestionable,” said Cyrus Harding, “and these are the
deductions which must be drawn from this incident: that the island was
inhabited before our arrival, or that men have landed here within three
months. Did these men arrive here voluntarily or involuntarily, by
disembarking on the shore or by being wrecked? This point can only be
cleared up later. As to what they were, Europeans or Malays, enemies or
friends of our race, we cannot possibly guess; and if they still inhabit
the island, or if they have left it, we know not. But these questions
are of too much importance to be allowed to remain long unsettled.”

“No! a hundred times no! a thousand times no!” cried the sailor,
springing up from the table. “There are no other men than ourselves on
Lincoln Island! By my faith! The island isn’t large and if it had been
inhabited, we should have seen some of the inhabitants long before
this!”

“In fact, the contrary would be very astonishing,” said Herbert.

“But it would be much more astonishing, I should think,” observed the
reporter, “if this peccary had been born with a bullet in its inside!”

“At least,” said Neb seriously, “if Pencroft has not had--”

“Look here, Neb,” burst out Pencroft. “Do you think I could have a
bullet in my jaw for five or six months without finding it out?
Where could it be hidden?” he asked, opening his mouth to show the
two-and-thirty teeth with which it was furnished. “Look well, Neb, and
if you find one hollow tooth in this set, I will let you pull out half a
dozen!”

“Neb’s supposition is certainly inadmissible,” replied Harding, who,
notwithstanding the gravity of his thoughts, could not restrain a smile.
“It is certain that a gun has been fired in the island, within three
months at most. But I am inclined to think that the people who landed
on this coast were only here a very short time ago, or that they just
touched here; for if, when we surveyed the island from the summit of
Mount Franklin, it had been inhabited, we should have seen them or we
should have been seen ourselves. It is therefore, probable that within
only a few weeks castaways have been thrown by a storm on some part of
the coast. However that may be, it is of consequence to us to have this
point settled.”

“I think that we should act with caution,” said the reporter.

“Such is my advice,” replied Cyrus Harding, “for it is to be feared that
Malay pirates have landed on the island!”

“Captain,” asked the sailor, “would it not be a good plan, before
setting out, to build a canoe in which we could either ascend the
river, or, if we liked, coast round the inland? It will not do to be
unprovided.”

“Your idea is good, Pencroft,” replied the engineer, “but we cannot wait
for that. It would take at least a month to build a boat.”

“Yes, a real boat,” replied the sailor; “but we do not want one for a
sea voyage, and in five days at the most, I will undertake to construct
a canoe fit to navigate the Mercy.”

“Five days,” cried Neb, “to build a boat?”

“Yes, Neb; a boat in the Indian fashion.”

“Of wood?” asked the Negro, looking still unconvinced.

“Of wood,” replied Pencroft, “or rather of bark. I repeat, captain, that
in five days the work will be finished!”

“In five days, then, be it,” replied the engineer.

“But till that time we must be very watchful,” said Herbert.

“Very watchful indeed, my friends,” replied Harding; “and I beg you to
confine your hunting excursions to the neighborhood of Granite House.”

The dinner ended less gaily than Pencroft had hoped.

So, then, the island was, or had been, inhabited by others than the
settlers. Proved as it was by the incident of the bullet, it was
hereafter an unquestionable fact, and such a discovery could not but
cause great uneasiness among the colonists.

Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett, before sleeping, conversed long about
the matter. They asked themselves if by chance this incident might not
have some connection with the inexplicable way in which the engineer had
been saved, and the other peculiar circumstances which had struck them
at different times. However, Cyrus Harding, after having discussed the
pros and cons of the question, ended by saying,--

“In short, would you like to know my opinion, my dear Spilett?”

“Yes, Cyrus.”

“Well, then, it is this: however minutely we explore the island, we
shall find nothing.”

The next day Pencroft set to work. He did not mean to build a boat with
boards and planking, but simply a flat-bottomed canoe, which would be
well suited for navigating the Mercy--above all, for approaching its
source, where the water would naturally be shallow. Pieces of bark,
fastened one to the other, would form a light boat; and in case of
natural obstacles, which would render a portage necessary, it would be
easily carried. Pencroft intended to secure the pieces of bark by means
of nails, to insure the canoe being water-tight.

It was first necessary to select the trees which would afford a strong
and supple bark for the work. Now the last storm had brought down a
number of large birch-trees, the bark of which would be perfectly suited
for their purpose. Some of these trees lay on the ground, and they had
only to be barked, which was the most difficult thing of all, owing to
the imperfect tools which the settlers possessed. However, they overcame
all difficulties.

While the sailor, seconded by the engineer, thus occupied himself
without losing an hour, Gideon Spilett and Herbert were not idle.

They were made purveyors to the colony. The reporter could not but
admire the boy, who had acquired great skill in handling the bow and
spear. Herbert also showed great courage and much of that presence of
mind which may justly be called “the reasoning of bravery.” These two
companions of the chase, remembering Cyrus Harding’s recommendations,
did not go beyond a radius of two miles round Granite House; but
the borders of the forest furnished a sufficient tribute of agoutis,
capybaras, kangaroos, peccaries, etc.; and if the result from the traps
was less than during the cold, still the warren yielded its accustomed
quota, which might have fed all the colony in Lincoln Island.

Often during these excursions, Herbert talked with Gideon Spilett on the
incident of the bullet, and the deductions which the engineer drew from
it, and one day--it was the 26th of October--he said--“But, Mr. Spilett,
do you not think it very extraordinary that, if any castaways have
landed on the island, they have not yet shown themselves near Granite
House?”

“Very astonishing if they are still here,” replied the reporter, “but
not astonishing at all if they are here no longer!”

“So you think that these people have already quitted the island?”
 returned Herbert.

“It is more than probable, my boy; for if their stay was prolonged, and
above all, if they were still here, some accident would have at last
betrayed their presence.”

“But if they were able to go away,” observed the lad, “they could not
have been castaways.”

“No, Herbert; or, at least, they were what might be called provisional
castaways. It is very possible that a storm may have driven them to the
island without destroying their vessel, and that, the storm over, they
went away again.”

“I must acknowledge one thing,” said Herbert, “it is that Captain
Harding appears rather to fear than desire the presence of human beings
on our island.”

“In short,” responded the reporter, “there are only Malays who frequent
these seas, and those fellows are ruffians which it is best to avoid.”

“It is not impossible, Mr. Spilett,” said Herbert, “that some day or
other we may find traces of their landing.”

“I do not say no, my boy. A deserted camp, the ashes of a fire, would
put us on the track, and this is what we will look for in our next
expedition.”

The day on which the hunters spoke thus, they were in a part of the
forest near the Mercy, remarkable for its beautiful trees. There, among
others, rose, to a height of nearly 200 feet above the ground, some of
those superb coniferae, to which, in New Zealand, the natives give the
name of Kauris.

“I have an idea, Mr. Spilett,” said Herbert. “If I were to climb to the
top of one of these kauris, I could survey the country for an immense
distance round.”

“The idea is good,” replied the reporter; “but could you climb to the
top of those giants?”

“I can at least try,” replied Herbert.

The light and active boy then sprang on the first branches, the
arrangement of which made the ascent of the kauri easy, and in a few
minutes he arrived at the summit, which emerged from the immense plain
of verdure.

From this elevated situation his gaze extended over all the southern
portion of the island, from Claw Cape on the southeast, to Reptile End
on the southwest. To the northwest rose Mount Franklin, which concealed
a great part of the horizon.

But Herbert, from the height of his observatory, could examine all the
yet unknown portion of the island, which might have given shelter to the
strangers whose presence they suspected.

The lad looked attentively. There was nothing in sight on the sea, not
a sail, neither on the horizon nor near the island. However, as the bank
of trees hid the shore, it was possible that a vessel, especially if
deprived of her masts, might lie close to the land and thus be invisible
to Herbert.

Neither in the forests of the Far West was anything to be seen. The wood
formed an impenetrable screen, measuring several square miles, without a
break or an opening. It was impossible even to follow the course of the
Mercy, or to ascertain in what part of the mountain it took its source.
Perhaps other creeks also ran towards the west, but they could not be
seen.

But at last, if all indication of an encampment escaped Herbert’s sight
could he not even catch a glimpse of smoke, the faintest trace of which
would be easily discernible in the pure atmosphere?

For an instant Herbert thought he could perceive a slight smoke in the
west, but a more attentive examination showed that he was mistaken. He
strained his eyes in every direction, and his sight was excellent. No,
decidedly there was nothing there.

Herbert descended to the foot of the kauri, and the two sportsmen
returned to Granite House. There Cyrus Harding listened to the lad’s
account, shook his head and said nothing. It was very evident that
no decided opinion could be pronounced on this question until after a
complete exploration of the island.

Two days after--the 28th of October--another incident occurred, for
which an explanation was again required.

While strolling along the shore about two miles from Granite House,
Herbert and Neb were fortunate enough to capture a magnificent specimen
of the order of chelonia. It was a turtle of the species Midas, the
edible green turtle, so called from the color both of its shell and fat.

Herbert caught sight of this turtle as it was crawling among the rocks
to reach the sea.

“Help, Neb, help!” he cried.

Neb ran up.

“What a fine animal!” said Neb; “but how are we to catch it?”

“Nothing is easier, Neb,” replied Herbert. “We have only to turn the
turtle on its back, and it cannot possibly get away. Take your spear and
do as I do.”

The reptile, aware of danger, had retired between its carapace and
plastron. They no longer saw its head or feet, and it was motionless as
a rock.

Herbert and Neb then drove their sticks underneath the animal, and by
their united efforts managed without difficulty to turn it on its back.
The turtle, which was three feet in length, would have weighed at least
four hundred pounds.

“Capital!” cried Neb; “this is something which will rejoice friend
Pencroft’s heart.”

In fact, the heart of friend Pencroft could not fail to be rejoiced,
for the flesh of the turtle, which feeds on wrack-grass, is extremely
savory. At this moment the creature’s head could be seen, which was
small, flat, but widened behind by the large temporal fossae hidden
under the long roof.

“And now, what shall we do with our prize?” said Neb. “We can’t drag it
to Granite House!”

“Leave it here, since it cannot turn over,” replied Herbert, “and we
will come back with the cart to fetch it.”

“That is the best plan.”

However, for greater precaution, Herbert took the trouble, which Neb
deemed superfluous, to wedge up the animal with great stones; after
which the two hunters returned to Granite House, following the beach,
which the tide had left uncovered. Herbert, wishing to surprise
Pencroft, said nothing about the “superb specimen of a chelonian” which
they had turned over on the sand; but, two hours later, he and Neb
returned with the cart to the place where they had left it. The “superb
specimen of a chelonian” was no longer there!

Neb and Herbert stared at each other first; then they stared about them.
It was just at this spot that the turtle had been left. The lad even
found the stones which he had used, and therefore he was certain of not
being mistaken.

“Well!” said Neb, “these beasts can turn themselves over, then?’’

“It appears so,” replied Herbert, who could not understand it at all,
and was gazing at the stones scattered on the sand.

“Well, Pencroft will be disgusted!”

“And Captain Harding will perhaps be very perplexed how to explain this
disappearance,” thought Herbert.

“Look here,” said Neb, who wished to hide his ill-luck, “we won’t speak
about it.”

“On the contrary, Neb, we must speak about it,” replied Herbert.

And the two, taking the cart, which there was now no use for, returned
to Granite House.

Arrived at the dockyard, where the engineer and the sailor were working
together, Herbert recounted what had happened.

“Oh! the stupids!” cried the sailor, “to have let at least fifty meals
escape!”

“But, Pencroft,” replied Neb, “it wasn’t our fault that the beast got
away; as I tell you, we had turned it over on its back!”

“Then you didn’t turn it over enough!” returned the obstinate sailor.

“Not enough!” cried Herbert.

And he told how he had taken care to wedge up the turtle with stones.

“It is a miracle, then!” replied Pencroft.

“I thought, captain,” said Herbert, “that turtles, once placed on their
backs, could not regain their feet, especially when they are of a large
size?’

“That is true, my boy,” replied Cyrus Harding.

“Then how did it manage?”

“At what distance from the sea did you leave this turtle?” asked
the engineer, who, having suspended his work, was reflecting on this
incident.

“Fifteen feet at the most,” replied Herbert.

“And the tide was low at the time?”

“Yes, captain.”

“Well,” replied the engineer, “what the turtle could not do on the sand
it might have been able to do in the water. It turned over when the tide
overtook it, and then quietly returned to the deep sea.”

“Oh! what stupids we were!” cried Neb.

“That is precisely what I had the honor of telling you before!” returned
the sailor.

Cyrus Harding had given this explanation, which, no doubt, was
admissible. But was he himself convinced of the accuracy of this
explanation? It cannot be said that he was.



Chapter 2

On the 9th of October the bark canoe was entirely finished. Pencroft
had kept his promise, and a light boat, the shell of which was joined
together by the flexible twigs of the crejimba, had been constructed in
five days. A seat in the stern, a second seat in the middle to preserve
the equilibrium, a third seat in the bows, rowlocks for the two oars, a
scull to steer with, completed the little craft, which was twelve feet
long, and did not weigh more than two hundred pounds. The operation of
launching it was extremely simple. The canoe was carried to the beach
and laid on the sand before Granite House, and the rising tide floated
it. Pencroft, who leaped in directly, maneuvered it with the scull and
declared it to be just the thing for the purpose to which they wished to
put it.

“Hurrah!” cried the sailor, who did not disdain to celebrate thus his
own triumph. “With this we could go round--”

“The world?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“No, the island. Some stones for ballast, a mast and a sail, which the
captain will make for us some day, and we shall go splendidly! Well,
captain--and you, Mr. Spilett; and you, Herbert; and you, Neb--aren’t
you coming to try our new vessel? Come along! we must see if it will
carry all five of us!”

This was certainly a trial which ought to be made. Pencroft soon brought
the canoe to the shore by a narrow passage among the rocks, and it was
agreed that they should make a trial of the boat that day by following
the shore as far as the first point at which the rocks of the south
ended.

As they embarked, Neb cried,--

“But your boat leaks rather, Pencroft.”

“That’s nothing, Neb,” replied the sailor; “the wood will get seasoned.
In two days there won’t be a single leak, and our boat will have no more
water in her than there is in the stomach of a drunkard. Jump in!”

They were soon all seated, and Pencroft shoved off. The weather was
magnificent, the sea as calm as if its waters were contained within
the narrow limits of a lake. Thus the boat could proceed with as much
security as if it was ascending the tranquil current of the Mercy.

Neb took one of the oars, Herbert the other, and Pencroft remained in
the stern in order to use the scull.

The sailor first crossed the channel, and steered close to the southern
point of the islet. A light breeze blew from the south. No roughness was
found either in the channel or the green sea. A long swell, which the
canoe scarcely felt, as it was heavily laden, rolled regularly over the
surface of the water. They pulled out about half a mile distant from the
shore, that they might have a good view of Mount Franklin.

Pencroft afterwards returned towards the mouth of the river. The boat
then skirted the shore, which, extending to the extreme point, hid all
Tadorn’s Fens.

This point, of which the distance was increased by the irregularity of
the coast, was nearly three miles from the Mercy. The settlers resolved
to go to its extremity, and only go beyond it as much as was necessary
to take a rapid survey of the coast as far as Claw Cape.

The canoe followed the windings of the shore, avoiding the rocks
which fringed it, and which the rising tide began to cover. The cliff
gradually sloped away from the mouth of the river to the point. This was
formed of granite rocks, capriciously distributed, very different from
the cliff at Prospect Heights, and of an extremely wild aspect. It might
have been said that an immense cartload of rocks had been emptied out
there. There was no vegetation on this sharp promontory, which projected
two miles from the forest, and it thus represented a giant’s arm
stretched out from a leafy sleeve.

The canoe, impelled by the two oars, advanced without difficulty. Gideon
Spilett, pencil in one hand and notebook in the other, sketched the
coast in bold strokes. Neb, Herbert, and Pencroft chatted, while
examining this part of their domain, which was new to them, and, in
proportion as the canoe proceeded towards the south, the two Mandible
Capes appeared to move, and surround Union Bay more closely.

As to Cyrus Harding, he did not speak; he simply gazed, and by the
mistrust which his look expressed, it appeared that he was examining
some strange country.

In the meantime, after a voyage of three-quarters of an hour, the
canoe reached the extremity of the point, and Pencroft was preparing to
return, when Herbert, rising, pointed to a black object, saying,--

“What do I see down there on the beach?”

All eyes turned towards the point indicated.

“Why,” said the reporter, “there is something. It looks like part of a
wreck half buried in the sand.”

“Ah!” cried Pencroft, “I see what it is!”

“What?” asked Neb.

“Barrels, barrels, which perhaps are full,” replied the sailor.

“Pull to the shore, Pencroft!” said Cyrus.

A few strokes of the oar brought the canoe into a little creek, and its
passengers leaped on shore.

Pencroft was not mistaken. Two barrels were there, half buried in the
sand, but still firmly attached to a large chest, which, sustained by
them, had floated to the moment when it stranded on the beach.

“There has been a wreck, then, in some part of the island,” said
Herbert.

“Evidently,” replied Spilett.

“But what’s in this chest?” cried Pencroft, with very natural
impatience. “What’s in this chest? It is shut up, and nothing to open it
with! Well, perhaps a stone--”

And the sailor, raising a heavy block, was about to break in one of the
sides of the chest, when the engineer arrested his hand.

“Pencroft,” said he, “can you restrain your impatience for one hour
only?”

“But, captain, just think! Perhaps there is everything we want in
there!”

“We shall find that out, Pencroft,” replied the engineer; “but trust
to me, and do not break the chest, which may be useful to us. We must
convey it to Granite House, where we can open it easily, and without
breaking it. It is quite prepared for a voyage; and since it has floated
here, it may just as well float to the mouth of the river.”

“You are right, captain, and I was wrong, as usual,” replied the sailor.

The engineer’s advice was good. In fact, the canoe probably would not
have been able to contain the articles possibly enclosed in the chest,
which doubtless was heavy, since two empty barrels were required to buoy
it up. It was, therefore, much better to tow it to the beach at Granite
House.

And now, whence had this chest come? That was the important question.
Cyrus Harding and his companions looked attentively around them, and
examined the shore for several hundred steps. No other articles or
pieces of wreck could be found. Herbert and Neb climbed a high rock
to survey the sea, but there was nothing in sight--neither a dismasted
vessel nor a ship under sail.

However, there was no doubt that there had been a wreck. Perhaps this
incident was connected with that of the bullet? Perhaps strangers had
landed on another part of the island? Perhaps they were still there?
But the thought which came naturally to the settlers was, that these
strangers could not be Malay pirates, for the chest was evidently of
American or European make.

All the party returned to the chest, which was of an unusually large
size. It was made of oak wood, very carefully closed and covered with
a thick hide, which was secured by copper nails. The two great barrels,
hermetically sealed, but which sounded hollow and empty, were fastened
to its sides by strong ropes, knotted with a skill which Pencroft
directly pronounced sailors alone could exhibit. It appeared to be in a
perfect state of preservation, which was explained by the fact that it
had stranded on a sandy beach, and not among rocks. They had no doubt
whatever, on examining it carefully, that it had not been long in the
water, and that its arrival on this coast was recent. The water did
not appear to have penetrated to the inside, and the articles which it
contained were no doubt uninjured.

It was evident that this chest had been thrown overboard from some
dismasted vessel driven towards the island, and that, in the hope
that it would reach the land, where they might afterwards find it,
the passengers had taken the precaution to buoy it up by means of this
floating apparatus.

“We will tow this chest to Granite House,” said the engineer, “where we
can make an inventory of its contents; then, if we discover any of the
survivors from the supposed wreck, we can return it to those to whom it
belongs. If we find no one--”

“We will keep it for ourselves!” cried Pencroft. “But what in the world
can there be in it?”

The sea was already approaching the chest, and the high tide would
evidently float it. One of the ropes which fastened the barrels was
partly unlashed and used as a cable to unite the floating apparatus with
the canoe. Pencroft and Neb then dug away the sand with their oars, so
as to facilitate the moving of the chest, towing which the boat soon
began to double the point, to which the name of Flotsam Point was given.

The chest was heavy, and the barrels were scarcely sufficient to keep
it above water. The sailor also feared every instant that it would get
loose and sink to the bottom of the sea. But happily his fears were not
realized, and an hour and a half after they set out--all that time had
been taken up in going a distance of three miles--the boat touched the
beach below Granite House.

Canoe and chest were then hauled up on the sands; and as the tide was
then going out, they were soon left high and dry. Neb, hurrying home,
brought back some tools with which to open the chest in such a way that
it might be injured as little as possible, and they proceeded to its
inventory. Pencroft did not try to hide that he was greatly excited.

The sailor began by detaching the two barrels, which, being in good
condition, would of course be of use. Then the locks were forced with a
cold chisel and hammer, and the lid thrown back. A second casing of zinc
lined the interior of the chest, which had been evidently arranged
that the articles which it enclosed might under any circumstances be
sheltered from damp.

“Oh!” cried Neb, “suppose it’s jam!

“I hope not,” replied the reporter.

“If only there was--” said the sailor in a low voice.

“What?” asked Neb, who overheard him.

“Nothing!”

The covering of zinc was torn off and thrown back over the sides of the
chest, and by degrees numerous articles of very varied character were
produced and strewn about on the sand. At each new object Pencroft
uttered fresh hurrahs, Herbert clapped his hands, and Neb danced up and
down. There were books which made Herbert wild with joy, and cooking
utensils which Neb covered with kisses!

In short, the colonists had reason to be extremely satisfied, for this
chest contained tools, weapons, instruments, clothes, books; and this
is the exact list of them as stated in Gideon Spilett’s note-book:
--Tools:--3 knives with several blades, 2 woodmen’s axes, 2 carpenter’s
hatchets, 3 planes, 2 adzes, 1 twibil or mattock, 6 chisels, 2 files,
3 hammers, 3 gimlets, 2 augers, 10 bags of nails and screws, 3 saws of
different sizes, 2 boxes of needles.

Weapons:--2 flint-lock guns, 2 for percussion caps, 2 breach-loader
carbines, 5 boarding cutlasses, 4 sabers, 2 barrels of powder, each
containing twenty-five pounds; 12 boxes of percussion caps.

Instruments:--1 sextant, 1 double opera-glass, 1 telescope, 1 box of
mathematical instruments, 1 mariner’s compass, 1 Fahrenheit thermometer,
1 aneroid barometer, 1 box containing a photographic apparatus,
object-glass, plates, chemicals, etc.

Clothes:--2 dozen shirts of a peculiar material resembling wool, but
evidently of a vegetable origin; 3 dozen stockings of the same material.

Utensils:--1 iron pot, 6 copper saucepans, 3 iron dishes, 10 metal
plates, 2 kettles, 1 portable stove, 6 table-knives.

Books:--1 Bible, 1 atlas, 1 dictionary of the different Polynesian
idioms, 1 dictionary of natural science, in six volumes; 3 reams of
white paper, 2 books with blank pages.

“It must be allowed,” said the reporter, after the inventory had been
made, “that the owner of this chest was a practical man! Tools, weapons,
instruments, clothes, utensils, books--nothing is wanting! It might
really be said that he expected to be wrecked, and had prepared for it
beforehand.”

“Nothing is wanting, indeed,” murmured Cyrus Harding thoughtfully.

“And for a certainty,” added Herbert, “the vessel which carried this
chest and its owner was not a Malay pirate!”

“Unless,” said Pencroft, “the owner had been taken prisoner by
pirates--”

“That is not admissible,” replied the reporter. “It is more probable
that an American or European vessel has been driven into this quarter,
and that her passengers, wishing to save necessaries at least, prepared
this chest and threw it overboard.”

“Is that your opinion, captain?” asked Herbert.

“Yes, my boy,” replied the engineer, “that may have been the case. It
is possible that at the moment, or in expectation of a wreck, they
collected into this chest different articles of the greatest use in
hopes of finding it again on the coast--”

“Even the photographic box!” exclaimed the sailor incredulously.

“As to that apparatus,” replied Harding, “I do not quite see the use of
it; and a more complete supply of clothes or more abundant ammunition
would have been more valuable to us as well as to any other castaways!”

“But isn’t there any mark or direction on these instruments, tools, or
books, which would tell us something about them?” asked Gideon Spilett.

That might be ascertained. Each article was carefully examined,
especially the books, instruments and weapons. Neither the weapons nor
the instruments, contrary to the usual custom, bore the name of the
maker; they were, besides, in a perfect state, and did not appear to
have been used. The same peculiarity marked the tools and utensils; all
were new, which proved that the articles had not been taken by chance
and thrown into the chest, but, on the contrary, that the choice of
things had been well considered and arranged with care. This was also
indicated by the second case of metal which had preserved them from
damp, and which could not have been soldered in a moment of haste.

As to the dictionaries of natural science and Polynesian idioms, both
were English; but they neither bore the name of the publisher nor the
date of publication.

The same with the Bible printed in English, in quarto, remarkable from a
typographic point of view, and which appeared to have been often used.

The atlas was a magnificent work, comprising maps of every country in
the world, and several planispheres arranged upon Mercator’s projection,
and of which the nomenclature was in French--but which also bore neither
date nor name of publisher.

There was nothing, therefore, on these different articles by which
they could be traced, and nothing consequently of a nature to show the
nationality of the vessel which must have recently passed these shores.

But, wherever the chest might have come from, it was a treasure to the
settlers on Lincoln Island. Till then, by making use of the productions
of nature, they had created everything for themselves, and, thanks to
their intelligence, they had managed without difficulty. But did it not
appear as if Providence had wished to reward them by sending them these
productions of human industry? Their thanks rose unanimously to Heaven.

However, one of them was not quite satisfied: it was Pencroft. It
appeared that the chest did not contain something which he evidently
held in great esteem, for in proportion as they approached the bottom
of the box, his hurrahs diminished in heartiness, and, the inventory
finished, he was heard to mutter these words:--“That’s all very fine,
but you can see that there is nothing for me in that box!”

This led Neb to say,--

“Why, friend Pencroft, what more do you expect?”

“Half a pound of tobacco,” replied Pencroft seriously, “and nothing
would have been wanting to complete my happiness!”

No one could help laughing at this speech of the sailor’s.

But the result of this discovery of the chest was, that it was now more
than ever necessary to explore the island thoroughly. It was therefore
agreed that the next morning at break of day, they should set out, by
ascending the Mercy so as to reach the western shore. If any castaways
had landed on the coast, it was to be feared they were without
resources, and it was therefore the more necessary to carry help to them
without delay.

During the day the different articles were carried to Granite House,
where they were methodically arranged in the great hall. This day--the
29th of October--happened to be a Sunday, and, before going to bed,
Herbert asked the engineer if he would not read them something from the
Gospel.

“Willingly,” replied Cyrus Harding.

He took the sacred volume, and was about to open it, when Pencroft
stopped him, saying,--“Captain, I am superstitious. Open at random
and read the first verse which, your eye falls upon. We will see if it
applies to our situation.”

Cyrus Harding smiled at the sailor’s idea, and, yielding to his wish, he
opened exactly at a place where the leaves were separated by a marker.

Immediately his eyes were attracted by a cross which, made with a
pencil, was placed against the eighth verse of the seventh chapter of
the Gospel of St. Matthew. He read the verse, which was this:--

“For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth.”



Chapter 3

The next day, the 30th of October, all was ready for the proposed
exploring expedition, which recent events had rendered so necessary. In
fact, things had so come about that the settlers in Lincoln Island no
longer needed help for themselves, but were even able to carry it to
others.

It was therefore agreed that they should ascend the Mercy as far as
the river was navigable. A great part of the distance would thus be
traversed without fatigue, and the explorers could transport their
provisions and arms to an advanced point in the west of the island.

It was necessary to think not only of the things which they should take
with them, but also of those which they might have by chance to bring
back to Granite House. If there had been a wreck on the coast, as was
supposed, there would be many things cast up, which would be lawfully
their prizes. In the event of this, the cart would have been of more use
than the light canoe, but it was heavy and clumsy to drag, and therefore
more difficult to use; this led Pencroft to express his regret that the
chest had not contained, besides “his halfpound of tobacco,” a pair
of strong New Jersey horses, which would have been very useful to the
colony!

The provisions, which Neb had already packed up, consisted of a store
of meat and of several gallons of beer, that is to say enough to sustain
them for three days, the time which Harding assigned for the expedition.
They hoped besides to supply themselves on the road, and Neb took care
not to forget the portable stove.

The only tools the settlers took were the two woodmen’s axes, which
they could use to cut a path through the thick forests, as also the
instruments, the telescope and pocket-compass.

For weapons they selected the two flint-lock guns, which were likely
to be more useful to them than the percussion fowling-pieces, the first
only requiring flints which could be easily replaced, and the latter
needing fulminating caps, a frequent use of which would soon exhaust
their limited stock. However, they took also one of the carbines and
some cartridges. As to the powder, of which there was about fifty pounds
in the barrel, a small supply of it had to be taken, but the engineer
hoped to manufacture an explosive substance which would allow them to
husband it. To the firearms were added the five cutlasses well sheathed
in leather, and, thus supplied, the settlers could venture into the vast
forest with some chance of success.

It is useless to add that Pencroft, Herbert, and Neb, thus armed, were
at the summit of their happiness, although Cyrus Harding made them
promise not to fire a shot unless it was necessary.

At six in the morning the canoe put off from the shore; all had
embarked, including Top, and they proceeded to the mouth of the Mercy.

The tide had begun to come up half an hour before. For several hours,
therefore, there would be a current, which it was well to profit by, for
later the ebb would make it difficult to ascend the river. The tide was
already strong, for in three days the moon would be full, and it was
enough to keep the boat in the center of the current, where it floated
swiftly along between the high banks without its being necessary
to increase its speed by the aid of the oars. In a few minutes the
explorers arrived at the angle formed by the Mercy and exactly at the
place where, seven months before, Pencroft had made his first raft of
wood.

After this sudden angle the river widened and flowed under the shade of
great evergreen firs.

The aspect of the banks was magnificent. Cyrus Harding and his
companions could not but admire the lovely effects so easily produced
by nature with water and trees. As they advanced the forest element
diminished. On the right bank of the river grew magnificent specimens of
the ulmaceae tribe, the precious elm, so valuable to builders, and which
withstands well the action of water. Then there were numerous groups
belonging to the same family, among others one in particular, the fruit
of which produces a very useful oil. Further on, Herbert remarked the
lardizabala, a twining shrub which, when bruised in water, furnishes
excellent cordage; and two or three ebony trees of a beautiful black,
crossed with capricious veins.

From time to time, in certain places where the landing was easy, the
canoe was stopped, when Gideon Spilett, Herbert, and Pencroft, their
guns in their hands, and preceded by Top, jumped on shore. Without
expecting game, some useful plant might be met with, and the young
naturalist was delighted with discovering a sort of wild spinach,
belonging to the order of chenopodiaceae, and numerous specimens of
cruciferae, belonging to the cabbage tribe, which it would certainly be
possible to cultivate by transplanting. There were cresses, horseradish,
turnips, and lastly, little branching hairy stalks, scarcely more than
three feet high, which produced brownish grains.

“Do you know what this plant is?” asked Herbert of the sailor.

“Tobacco!” cried Pencroft, who evidently had never seen his favorite
plant except in the bowl of his pipe.

“No, Pencroft,” replied Herbert; “this is not tobacco, it is mustard.”

“Mustard be hanged!” returned the sailor; “but if by chance you happen
to come across a tobacco-plant, my boy, pray don’t scorn that!”

“We shall find it some day!” said Gideon Spilett.

“Well!” exclaimed Pencroft, “when that day comes, I do not know what
more will be wanting in our island!”

These different plants, which had been carefully rooted up, were carried
to the canoe, where Cyrus Harding had remained buried in thought.

The reporter, Herbert, and Pencroft in this manner frequently
disembarked, sometimes on the right bank, sometimes on the left bank of
the Mercy.

The latter was less abrupt, but the former more wooded. The engineer
ascertained by consulting his pocket-compass that the direction of the
river from the first turn was obviously southwest and northeast, and
nearly straight for a length of about three miles. But it was to be
supposed that this direction changed beyond that point, and that the
Mercy continued to the north-west, towards the spurs of Mount Franklin,
among which the river rose.

During one of these excursions, Gideon Spilett managed to get hold
of two couples of living gallinaceae. They were birds with long, thin
beaks, lengthened necks, short wings, and without any appearance of
a tail. Herbert rightly gave them the name of tinamous, and it
was resolved that they should be the first tenants of their future
poultry-yard.

But till then the guns had not spoken, and the first report which awoke
the echoes of the forest of the Far West was provoked by the appearance
of a beautiful bird, resembling the kingfisher.

“I recognize him!” cried Pencroft, and it seemed as if his gun went off
by itself.

“What do you recognize?” asked the reporter.

“The bird which escaped us on our first excursion, and from which we
gave the name to that part of the forest.”

“A jacamar!” cried Herbert.

It was indeed a jacamar, of which the plumage shines with a metallic
luster. A shot brought it to the ground, and Top carried it to the
canoe. At the same time half a dozen lories were brought down. The lory
is of the size of a pigeon, the plumage dashed with green, part of
the wings crimson, and its crest bordered with white. To the young boy
belonged the honor of this shot, and he was proud enough of it. Lories
are better food than the jacamar, the flesh of which is rather tough,
but it was difficult to persuade Pencroft that he had not killed the
king of eatable birds. It was ten o’clock in the morning when the canoe
reached a second angle of the Mercy, nearly five miles from its mouth.
Here a halt was made for breakfast under the shade of some splendid
trees. The river still measured from sixty to seventy feet in breadth,
and its bed from five to six feet in depth. The engineer had observed
that it was increased by numerous affluents, but they were unnavigable,
being simply little streams. As to the forest, including Jacamar Wood,
as well as the forests of the Far West, it extended as far as the eye
could reach. In no place, either in the depths of the forests or under
the trees on the banks of the Mercy, was the presence of man revealed.
The explorers could not discover one suspicious trace. It was evident
that the woodman’s axe had never touched these trees, that the pioneer’s
knife had never severed the creepers hanging from one trunk to another
in the midst of tangled brushwood and long grass. If castaways had
landed on the island, they could not have yet quitted the shore, and it
was not in the woods that the survivors of the supposed shipwreck should
be sought.

The engineer therefore manifested some impatience to reach the western
coast of Lincoln Island, which was at least five miles distant according
to his estimation.

The voyage was continued, and as the Mercy appeared to flow not towards
the shore, but rather towards Mount Franklin, it was decided that they
should use the boat as long as there was enough water under its keel
to float it. It was both fatigue spared and time gained, for they would
have been obliged to cut a path through the thick wood with their axes.
But soon the flow completely failed them, either the tide was going
down, and it was about the hour, or it could no longer be felt at this
distance from the mouth of the Mercy. They had therefore to make use of
the oars. Herbert and Neb each took one, and Pencroft took the scull.
The forest soon became less dense, the trees grew further apart and
often quite isolated. But the further they were from each other the more
magnificent they appeared, profiting, as they did, by the free, pure air
which circulated around them.

What splendid specimens of the flora of this latitude! Certainly
their presence would have been enough for a botanist to name without
hesitation the parallel which traversed Lincoln Island.

“Eucalypti!” cried Herbert.

They were, in fact, those splendid trees, the giants of the
extratropical zone, the congeners of the Australian and New Zealand
eucalyptus, both situated under the same latitude as Lincoln Island.
Some rose to a height of two hundred feet. Their trunks at the base
measured twenty feet in circumference, and their bark was covered by a
network of farrows containing a red, sweet-smelling gum. Nothing is more
wonderful or more singular than those enormous specimens of the order of
the myrtaceae, with their leaves placed vertically and not horizontally,
so that an edge and not a surface looks upwards, the effect being that
the sun’s rays penetrate more freely among the trees.

The ground at the foot of the eucalypti was carpeted with grass, and
from the bushes escaped flights of little birds, which glittered in the
sunlight like winged rubies.

“These are something like trees!” cried Neb; “but are they good for
anything?”

“Pooh!” replied Pencroft. “Of course there are vegetable giants as well
as human giants, and they are no good, except to show themselves at
fairs!”

“I think that you are mistaken, Pencroft,” replied Gideon Spilett, “and
that the wood of the eucalyptus has begun to be very advantageously
employed in cabinet-making.”

“And I may add,” said Herbert, “that the eucalyptus belongs to a family
which comprises many useful members; the guava-tree, from whose fruit
guava jelly is made; the clove-tree, which produces the spice; the
pomegranate-tree, which bears pomegranates; the Eugeacia Cauliflora,
the fruit of which is used in making a tolerable wine; the Ugui myrtle,
which contains an excellent alcoholic liquor; the Caryophyllus myrtle,
of which the bark forms an esteemed cinnamon; the Eugenia Pimenta, from
whence comes Jamaica pepper; the common myrtle, from whose buds and
berries spice is sometimes made; the Eucalyptus manifera, which yields
a sweet sort of manna; the Guinea Eucalyptus, the sap of which is
transformed into beer by fermentation; in short, all those trees known
under the name of gum-trees or iron-bark trees in Australia, belong
to this family of the myrtaceae, which contains forty-six genera and
thirteen hundred species!”

The lad was allowed to run on, and he delivered his little botanical
lecture with great animation. Cyrus Harding listened smiling, and
Pencroft with an indescribable feeling of pride.

“Very good, Herbert,” replied Pencroft, “but I could swear that all
those useful specimens you have just told us about are none of them
giants like these!”

“That is true, Pencroft.”

“That supports what I said,” returned the sailor, “namely, that these
giants are good for nothing!”

“There you are wrong, Pencroft,” said the engineer; “these gigantic
eucalypti, which shelter us, are good for something.”

“And what is that?”

“To render the countries which they inhabit healthy. Do you know what
they are called in Australia and New Zealand?”

“No, captain.”

“They are called ‘fever trees.’”

“Because they give fevers?”

“No, because they prevent them!”

“Good. I must note that,” said the reporter.

“Note it then, my dear Spilett; for it appears proved that the presence
of the eucalyptus is enough to neutralize miasmas. This natural antidote
has been tried in certain countries in the middle of Europe and the
north of Africa where the soil was absolutely unhealthy, and the
sanitary condition of the inhabitants has been gradually ameliorated. No
more intermittent fevers prevail in the regions now covered with forests
of the myrtaceae. This fact is now beyond doubt, and it is a happy
circumstance for us settlers in Lincoln Island.”

“Ah! what an island! What a blessed island!” cried Pencroft. “I tell
you, it wants nothing--unless it is--”

“That will come, Pencroft, that will be found,” replied the engineer;
“but now we must continue our voyage and push on as far as the river
will carry our boat!”

The exploration was therefore continued for another two miles in the
midst of country covered with eucalypti, which predominated in the woods
of this portion of the island. The space which they occupied extended as
far as the eye could reach on each side of the Mercy, which wound along
between high green banks. The bed was often obstructed by long weeds,
and even by pointed rocks, which rendered the navigation very difficult.
The action of the oars was prevented, and Pencroft was obliged to push
with a pole. They found also that the water was becoming shallower
and shallower, and that the canoe must soon stop. The sun was already
sinking towards the horizon, and the trees threw long shadows on the
ground. Cyrus Harding, seeing that he could not hope to reach the
western coast of the island in one journey, resolved to camp at the
place where any further navigation was prevented by want of water. He
calculated that they were still five or six miles from the coast, and
this distance was too great for them to attempt during the night in the
midst of unknown woods.

The boat was pushed on through the forest, which gradually became
thicker again, and appeared also to have more inhabitants; for if the
eyes of the sailor did not deceive him, he thought he saw bands of
monkeys springing among the trees. Sometimes even two or three of these
animals stopped at a little distance from the canoe and gazed at the
settlers without manifesting any terror, as if, seeing men for the first
time, they had not yet learned to fear them. It would have been easy
to bring down one of these quadramani with a gunshot, and Pencroft was
greatly tempted to fire, but Harding opposed so useless a massacre.
This was prudent, for the monkeys, or apes rather, appearing to be very
powerful and extremely active, it was useless to provoke an unnecessary
aggression, and the creatures might, ignorant of the power of the
explorers’ firearms, have attacked them. It is true that the sailor
considered the monkeys from a purely alimentary point of view, for those
animals which are herbivorous make very excellent game; but since they
had an abundant supply of provisions, it was a pity to waste their
ammunition.

Towards four o’clock, the navigation of the Mercy became exceedingly
difficult, for its course was obstructed by aquatic plants and rocks.
The banks rose higher and higher, and already they were approaching the
spurs of Mount Franklin. The source could not be far off, since it was
fed by the water from the southern slopes of the mountain.

“In a quarter of an hour,” said the sailor, “we shall be obliged to
stop, captain.”

“Very well, we will stop, Pencroft, and we will make our encampment for
the night.”

“At what distance are we from Granite House?” asked Herbert.

“About seven miles,” replied the engineer, “taking into calculation,
however, the detours of the river, which has carried us to the
northwest.”

“Shall we go on?” asked the reporter.

“Yes, as long as we can,” replied Cyrus Harding. “To-morrow, at break of
day, we will leave the canoe, and in two hours I hope we shall cross the
distance which separates us from the coast, and then we shall have the
whole day in which to explore the shore.”

“Go ahead!” replied Pencroft.

But soon the boat grated on the stony bottom of the river, which was
now not more than twenty feet in breadth. The trees met like a bower
overhead, and caused a half-darkness. They also heard the noise of a
waterfall, which showed that a few hundred feet up the river there was a
natural barrier.

Presently, after a sudden turn of the river, a cascade appeared through
the trees. The canoe again touched the bottom, and in a few minutes it
was moored to a trunk near the right bank.

It was nearly five o’clock. The last rays of the sun gleamed through
the thick foliage and glanced on the little waterfall, making the spray
sparkle with all the colors of the rainbow. Beyond that, the Mercy was
lost in the bushwood, where it was fed from some hidden source. The
different streams which flowed into it increased it to a regular river
further down, but here it was simply a shallow, limpid brook.

It was agreed to camp here, as the place was charming. The colonists
disembarked, and a fire was soon lighted under a clump of trees, among
the branches of which Cyrus Harding and his companions could, if it was
necessary, take refuge for the night.

Supper was quickly devoured, for they were very hungry, and then there
was only sleeping to think of. But, as roarings of rather a suspicious
nature had been heard during the evening, a good fire was made up for
the night, so as to protect the sleepers with its crackling flames. Neb
and Pencroft also watched by turns, and did not spare fuel. They thought
they saw the dark forms of some wild animals prowling round the camp
among the bushes, but the night passed without incident, and the next
day, the 31st of October, at five o’clock in the morning, all were on
foot, ready for a start.



Chapter 4

It was six o’ clock in the morning when the settlers, after a hasty
breakfast, set out to reach by the shortest way, the western coast of
the island. And how long would it take to do this? Cyrus Harding
had said two hours, but of course that depended on the nature of the
obstacles they might meet with. As it was probable that they would have
to cut a path through the grass, shrubs, and creepers, they marched axe
in hand, and with guns also ready, wisely taking warning from the cries
of the wild beasts heard in the night.

The exact position of the encampment could be determined by the bearing
of Mount Franklin, and as the volcano arose in the north at a distance
of less than three miles, they had only to go straight towards the
southwest to reach the western coast. They set out, having first
carefully secured the canoe. Pencroft and Neb carried sufficient
provision for the little band for at least two days. It would not thus
be necessary to hunt. The engineer advised his companions to refrain
from firing, that their presence might not be betrayed to any one near
the shore. The first hatchet blows were given among the brushwood in the
midst of some mastic-trees, a little above the cascade; and his compass
in his hand, Cyrus Harding led the way.

The forest here was composed for the most part of trees which had
already been met with near the lake and on Prospect Heights. There
were deodars, Douglas firs, casuarinas, gum trees, eucalypti, hibiscus,
cedars, and other trees, generally of a moderate size, for their number
prevented their growth.

Since their departure, the settlers had descended the slopes which
constituted the mountain system of the island, on to a dry soil, but the
luxuriant vegetation of which indicated it to be watered either by some
subterranean marsh or by some stream. However, Cyrus Harding did not
remember having seen, at the time of his excursion to the crater, any
other watercourses but the Red Creek and the Mercy.

During the first part of their excursion, they saw numerous troops of
monkeys who exhibited great astonishment at the sight of men, whose
appearance was so new to them. Gideon Spilett jokingly asked whether
these active and merry quadrupeds did not consider him and his
companions as degenerate brothers.

And certainly, pedestrians, hindered at each step by bushes, caught by
creepers, barred by trunks of trees, did not shine beside those supple
animals, who, bounding from branch to branch, were hindered by nothing
on their course. The monkeys were numerous, but happily they did not
manifest any hostile disposition.

Several pigs, agoutis, kangaroos, and other rodents were seen, also two
or three koalas, at which Pencroft longed to have a shot.

“But,” said he, “you may jump and play just now; we shall have one or
two words to say to you on our way back!”

At half-past nine the way was suddenly found to be barred by an unknown
stream, from thirty to forty feet broad, whose rapid current dashed
foaming over the numerous rocks which interrupted its course. This creek
was deep and clear, but it was absolutely unnavigable.

“We are cut off!” cried Neb.

“No,” replied Herbert, “it is only a stream, and we can easily swim
over.”

“What would be the use of that?” returned Harding. “This creek evidently
runs to the sea. Let us remain on this side and follow the bank, and
I shall be much astonished if it does not lead us very quickly to the
coast. Forward!”

“One minute,” said the reporter. “The name of this creek, my friends? Do
not let us leave our geography incomplete.”

“All right!” said Pencroft.

“Name it, my boy,” said the engineer, addressing the lad.

“Will it not be better to wait until we have explored it to its mouth?”
 answered Herbert.

“Very well,” replied Cyrus Harding. “Let us follow it as fast as we can
without stopping.”

“Still another minute!” said Pencroft.

“What’s the matter?” asked the reporter.

“Though hunting is forbidden, fishing is allowed, I suppose,” said the
sailor.

“We have no time to lose,” replied the engineer.

“Oh! five minutes!” replied Pencroft, “I only ask for five minutes to
use in the interest of our breakfast!”

And Pencroft, lying down on the bank, plunged his arm into the water,
and soon pulled up several dozen of fine crayfish from among the stones.

“These will be good!” cried Neb, going to the sailor’s aid.

“As I said, there is everything in this island, except tobacco!”
 muttered Pencroft with a sigh.

The fishing did not take five minutes, for the crayfish were swarming in
the creek. A bag was filled with the crustaceae, whose shells were of a
cobalt blue. The settlers then pushed on.

They advanced more rapidly and easily along the bank of the river than
in the forest. From time to time they came upon the traces of animals of
a large size who had come to quench their thirst at the stream, but none
were actually seen, and it was evidently not in this part of the forest
that the peccary had received the bullet which had cost Pencroft a
grinder.

In the meanwhile, considering the rapid current, Harding was led to
suppose that he and his companions were much farther from the western
coast than they had at first supposed. In fact, at this hour, the rising
tide would have turned back the current of the creek, if its mouth had
only been a few miles distant. Now, this effect was not produced, and
the water pursued its natural course. The engineer was much astonished
at this, and frequently consulted his compass, to assure himself that
some turn of the river was not leading them again into the Far West.

However, the creek gradually widened and its waters became less
tumultuous. The trees on the right bank were as close together as on the
left bank, and it was impossible to distinguish anything beyond them;
but these masses of wood were evidently uninhabited, for Top did not
bark, and the intelligent animal would not have failed to signal the
presence of any stranger in the neighborhood.

At half-past ten, to the great surprise of Cyrus Harding, Herbert, who
was a little in front, suddenly stopped and exclaimed,--

“The sea!”

In a few minutes more, the whole western shore of the island lay
extended before the eyes of the settlers.

But what a contrast between this and the eastern coast, upon which
chance had first thrown them. No granite cliff, no rocks, not even a
sandy beach. The forest reached the shore, and the tall trees bending
over the water were beaten by the waves. It was not such a shore as is
usually formed by nature, either by extending a vast carpet of sand,
or by grouping masses of rock, but a beautiful border consisting of the
most splendid trees. The bank was raised a little above the level of the
sea, and on this luxuriant soil, supported by a granite base, the fine
forest trees seemed to be as firmly planted as in the interior of the
island.

The colonists were then on the shore of an unimportant little harbor,
which would scarcely have contained even two or three fishing-boats. It
served as a neck to the new creek, of which the curious thing was that
its waters, instead of joining the sea by a gentle slope, fell from a
height of more than forty feet, which explained why the rising tide was
not felt up the stream. In fact, the tides of the Pacific, even at
their maximum elevation, could never reach the level of the river, and,
doubtless, millions of years would pass before the water would have worn
away the granite and hollowed a practicable mouth.

It was settled that the name of Falls River should be given to this
stream. Beyond, towards the north, the forest border was prolonged for
a space of nearly two miles; then the trees became scarcer, and beyond
that again the picturesque heights described a nearly straight line,
which ran north and south. On the contrary, all the part of the shore
between Falls River and Reptile End was a mass of wood, magnificent
trees, some straight, others bent, so that the long sea-swell bathed
their roots. Now, it was this coast, that is, all the Serpentine
Peninsula, that was to be explored, for this part of the shore offered
a refuge to castaways, which the other wild and barren side must have
refused.

The weather was fine and clear, and from a height of a hillock on which
Neb and Pencroft had arranged breakfast, a wide view was obtained. There
was, however, not a sail in sight; nothing could be seen along the shore
as far as the eye could reach. But the engineer would take nothing for
granted until he had explored the coast to the very extremity of the
Serpentine Peninsula.

Breakfast was soon despatched, and at half-past eleven the captain gave
the signal for departure. Instead of proceeding over the summit of a
cliff or along a sandy beach, the settlers were obliged to remain under
cover of the trees so that they might continue on the shore.

The distance which separated Falls River from Reptile End was about
twelve miles. It would have taken the settlers four hours to do this,
on a clear ground and without hurrying themselves; but as it was they
needed double the time, for what with trees to go round, bushes to cut
down, and creepers to chop away, they were impeded at every step, these
obstacles greatly lengthening their journey.

There was, however, nothing to show that a shipwreck had taken place
recently. It is true that, as Gideon Spilett observed, any remains of
it might have drifted out to sea, and they must not take it for granted
that because they could find no traces of it, a ship had not been
castaway on the coast.

The reporter’s argument was just, and besides, the incident of the
bullet proved that a shot must have been fired in Lincoln Island within
three months.

It was already five o’clock, and there were still two miles between the
settlers and the extremity of the Serpentine Peninsula. It was evident
that after having reached Reptile End, Harding and his companions would
not have time to return before dark to their encampment near the source
of the Mercy. It would therefore be necessary to pass the night on the
promontory. But they had no lack of provisions, which was lucky, for
there were no animals on the shore, though birds, on the contrary,
abound--jacamars, couroucous, tragopans, grouse, lories, parrots,
cockatoos, pheasants, pigeons, and a hundred others. There was not
a tree without a nest, and not a nest which was not full of flapping
wings.

Towards seven o’clock the weary explorers arrived at Reptile End. Here
the seaside forest ended, and the shore resumed the customary appearance
of a coast, with rocks, reefs, and sands. It was possible that something
might be found here, but darkness came on, and the further exploration
had to be put off to the next day.

Pencroft and Herbert hastened on to find a suitable place for their
camp. Among the last trees of the forest of the Far West, the boy found
several thick clumps of bamboos.

“Good,” said he; “this is a valuable discovery.”

“Valuable?” returned Pencroft.

“Certainly,” replied Herbert. “I may say, Pencroft, that the bark of the
bamboo, cut into flexible laths, is used for making baskets; that this
bark, mashed into a paste, is used for the manufacture of Chinese paper;
that the stalks furnish, according to their size, canes and pipes
and are used for conducting water; that large bamboos make excellent
material for building, being light and strong, and being never attacked
by insects. I will add that by sawing the bamboo in two at the joint,
keeping for the bottom the part of the transverse film which forms
the joint, useful cups are obtained, which are much in use among the
Chinese. No! you don’t care for that. But--”

“But what?”

“But I can tell you, if you are ignorant of it, that in India these
bamboos are eaten like asparagus.”

“Asparagus thirty feet high!” exclaimed the sailor. “And are they good?”

“Excellent,” replied Herbert. “Only it is not the stems of thirty feet
high which are eaten, but the young shoots.”

“Perfect, my boy, perfect!” replied Pencroft.

“I will also add that the pith of the young stalks, preserved in
vinegar, makes a good pickle.”

“Better and better, Herbert!”

“And lastly, that the bamboos exude a sweet liquor which can be made
into a very agreeable drink.”

“Is that all?” asked the sailor.

“That is all!”

“And they don’t happen to do for smoking?”

“No, my poor Pencroft.”

Herbert and the sailor had not to look long for a place in which to pass
the night. The rocks, which must have been violently beaten by the
sea under the influence of the winds of the southwest, presented many
cavities in which shelter could be found against the night air. But just
as they were about to enter one of these caves a loud roaring arrested
them.

“Back!” cried Pencroft. “Our guns are only loaded with small shot, and
beasts which can roar as loud as that would care no more for it than for
grains of salt!” And the sailor, seizing Herbert by the arm, dragged
him behind a rock, just as a magnificent animal showed itself at the
entrance of the cavern.

It was a jaguar of a size at least equal to its Asiatic congeners, that
is to say, it measured five feet from the extremity of its head to the
beginning of its tail. The yellow color of its hair was relieved by
streaks and regular oblong spots of black, which contrasted with the
white of its chest. Herbert recognized it as the ferocious rival of
the tiger, as formidable as the puma, which is the rival of the largest
wolf!

The jaguar advanced and gazed around him with blazing eyes, his hair
bristling as if this was not the first time he had scented men.

At this moment the reporter appeared round a rock, and Herbert, thinking
that he had not seen the jaguar, was about to rush towards him, when
Gideon Spilett signed to him to remain where he was. This was not his
first tiger, and advancing to within ten feet of the animal he remained
motionless, his gun to his shoulder, without moving a muscle. The jaguar
collected itself for a spring, but at that moment a shot struck it in
the eyes, and it fell dead.

Herbert and Pencroft rushed towards the jaguar. Neb and Harding also ran
up, and they remained for some instants contemplating the animal as it
lay stretched on the ground, thinking that its magnificent skin would be
a great ornament to the hall at Granite House.

“Oh, Mr. Spilett, how I admire and envy you!” cried Herbert, in a fit of
very natural enthusiasm.

“Well, my boy,” replied the reporter, “you could have done the same.”

“I! with such coolness!--”

“Imagine to yourself, Herbert, that the jaguar is only a hare, and you
would fire as quietly as possible.”

“That is,” rejoined Pencroft, “that it is not more dangerous than a
hare!”

“And now,” said Gideon Spilett, “since the jaguar has left its abode, I
do not see, my friends, why we should not take possession of it for the
night.”

“But others may come,” said Pencroft.

“It will be enough to light a fire at the entrance of the cavern,” said
the reporter, “and no wild beasts will dare to cross the threshold.”

“Into the jaguar’s house, then!” replied the sailor, dragging after him
the body of the animal.

While Neb skinned the jaguar, his companions collected an abundant
supply of dry wood from the forest, which they heaped up at the cave.

Cyrus Harding, seeing the clump of bamboos, cut a quantity, which he
mingled with the other fuel.

This done, they entered the grotto, of which the floor was strewn with
bones, the guns were carefully loaded, in case of a sudden attack, they
had supper, and then just before they lay down to rest, the heap of wood
piled at the entrance was set fire to. Immediately, a regular explosion,
or rather a series of reports, broke the silence! The noise was caused
by the bamboos, which, as the flames reached them, exploded like
fireworks. The noise was enough to terrify even the boldest of wild
beasts.

It was not the engineer who had invented this way of causing loud
explosions, for, according to Marco Polo, the Tartars have employed it
for many centuries to drive away from their encampments the formidable
wild beasts of Central Asia.



Chapter 5

Cyrus Harding and his companions slept like innocent marmots in the cave
which the jaguar had so politely left at their disposal.

At sunrise all were on the shore at the extremity of the promontory, and
their gaze was directed towards the horizon, of which two-thirds of
the circumference were visible. For the last time the engineer could
ascertain that not a sail nor the wreck of a ship was on the sea, and
even with the telescope nothing suspicious could be discovered.

There was nothing either on the shore, at least, in the straight line
of three miles which formed the south side of the promontory, for
beyond that, rising ground had the rest of the coast, and even from the
extremity of the Serpentine Peninsula Claw Cape could not be seen.

The southern coast of the island still remained to be explored. Now
should they undertake it immediately, and devote this day to it?

This was not included in their first plan. In fact, when the boat was
abandoned at the sources of the Mercy, it had been agreed that after
having surveyed the west coast, they should go back to it, and return to
Granite House by the Mercy. Harding then thought that the western coast
would have offered refuge, either to a ship in distress, or to a vessel
in her regular course; but now, as he saw that this coast presented no
good anchorage, he wished to seek on the south what they had not been
able to find on the west.

Gideon Spilett proposed to continue the exploration, that the question
of the supposed wreck might be completely settled, and he asked at what
distance Claw Cape might be from the extremity of the peninsula.

“About thirty miles,” replied the engineer, “if we take into
consideration the curvings of the coast.”


“Thirty miles!” returned Spilett. “That would be a long day’s march.
Nevertheless, I think that we should return to Granite House by the
south coast.”

“But,” observed Herbert, “from Claw Cape to Granite House there must be
at least another ten miles.

“Make it forty miles in all,” replied the engineer, “and do not hesitate
to do it. At least we should survey the unknown shore, and then we shall
not have to begin the exploration again.”

“Very good,” said Pencroft. “But the boat?”

“The boat has remained by itself for one day at the sources of the
Mercy,” replied Gideon Spilett; “it may just as well stay there two
days! As yet, we have had no reason to think that the island is infested
by thieves!”

“Yet,” said the sailor, “when I remember the history of the turtle, I am
far from confident of that.”

“The turtle! the turtle!” replied the reporter. “Don’t you know that the
sea turned it over?”

“Who knows?” murmured the engineer.

“But,--” said Neb.

Neb had evidently something to say, for he opened his mouth to speak and
yet said nothing.

“What do you want to say, Neb?” asked the engineer.

“If we return by the shore to Claw Cape,” replied Neb, “after having
doubled the Cape, we shall be stopped--”

“By the Mercy! of course,” replied Herbert, “and we shall have neither
bridge nor boat by which to cross.”

“But, captain,” added Pencroft, “with a few floating trunks we shall
have no difficulty in crossing the river.”

“Never mind,” said Spilett, “it will be useful to construct a bridge if
we wish to have an easy access to the Far West!”

“A bridge!” cried Pencroft. “Well, is not the captain the best engineer
in his profession? He will make us a bridge when we want one. As to
transporting you this evening to the other side of the Mercy, and that
without wetting one thread of your clothes, I will take care of that. We
have provisions for another day, and besides we can get plenty of game.
Forward!”

The reporter’s proposal, so strongly seconded by the sailor, received
general approbation, for each wished to have their doubts set at rest,
and by returning by Claw Cape the exploration would be ended. But there
was not an hour to lose, for forty miles was a long march, and they
could not hope to reach Granite House before night.

At six o’clock in the morning the little band set out. As a precaution
the guns were loaded with ball, and Top, who led the van, received
orders to beat about the edge of the forest.

From the extremity of the promontory which formed the tail of the
peninsula the coast was rounded for a distance of five miles, which
was rapidly passed over, without even the most minute investigations
bringing to light the least trace of any old or recent landings; no
debris, no mark of an encampment, no cinders of a fire, nor even a
footprint!

From the point of the peninsula on which the settlers now were their
gaze could extend along the southwest. Twenty-five miles off the coast
terminated in the Claw Cape, which loomed dimly through the morning
mists, and which, by the phenomenon of the mirage, appeared as if
suspended between land and water.

Between the place occupied by the colonists and the other side of the
immense bay, the shore was composed, first, of a tract of low land,
bordered in the background by trees; then the shore became more
irregular, projecting sharp points into the sea, and finally ended in
the black rocks which, accumulated in picturesque disorder, formed Claw
Cape.

Such was the development of this part of the island, which the settlers
took in at a glance, while stopping for an instant.

“If a vessel ran in here,” said Pencroft, “she would certainly be lost.
Sandbanks and reefs everywhere! Bad quarters!”

“But at least something would be left of the ship,” observed the
reporter.

“There might be pieces of wood on the rocks, but nothing on the sands,”
 replied the sailor.

“Why?”

“Because the sands are still more dangerous than the rocks, for they
swallow up everything that is thrown on them. In a few days the hull of
a ship of several hundred tons would disappear entirely in there!”

“So, Pencroft,” asked the engineer, “if a ship has been wrecked on
these banks, is it not astonishing that there is now no trace of her
remaining?”

“No, captain, with the aid of time and tempest. However, it would be
surprising, even in this case, that some of the masts or spars should
not have been thrown on the beach, out of reach of the waves.”

“Let us go on with our search, then,” returned Cyrus Harding.

At one o’clock the colonists arrived at the other side of Washington
Bay, they having now gone a distance of twenty miles.

They then halted for breakfast.

Here began the irregular coast, covered with lines of rocks and
sandbanks. The long sea-swell could be seen breaking over the rocks in
the bay, forming a foamy fringe. From this point to Claw Cape the beach
was very narrow between the edge of the forest and the reefs.

Walking was now more difficult, on account of the numerous rocks which
encumbered the beach. The granite cliff also gradually increased in
height, and only the green tops of the trees which crowned it could be
seen.

After half an hour’s rest, the settlers resumed their journey, and not
a spot among the rocks was left unexamined. Pencroft and Neb even rushed
into the surf whenever any object attracted their attention. But they
found nothing, some curious formations of the rocks having deceived
them. They ascertained, however, that eatable shellfish abounded there,
but these could not be of any great advantage to them until some easy
means of communication had been established between the two banks of the
Mercy, and until the means of transport had been perfected.

Nothing therefore which threw any light on the supposed wreck could be
found on this shore, yet an object of any importance, such as the hull
of a ship, would have been seen directly, or any of her masts and spars
would have been washed on shore, just as the chest had been, which was
found twenty miles from here. But there was nothing.

Towards three o’clock Harding and his companions arrived at a snug
little creek. It formed quite a natural harbor, invisible from the sea,
and was entered by a narrow channel.

At the back of this creek some violent convulsion had torn up the
rocky border, and a cutting, by a gentle slope, gave access to an upper
plateau, which might be situated at least ten miles from Claw Cape, and
consequently four miles in a straight line from Prospect Heights. Gideon
Spilett proposed to his companions that they should make a halt here.
They agreed readily, for their walk had sharpened their appetites;
and although it was not their usual dinner-hour, no one refused to
strengthen himself with a piece of venison. This luncheon would sustain
them until their supper, which they intended to take at Granite House.
In a few minutes the settlers, seated under a clump of fine sea-pines,
were devouring the provisions which Neb produced from his bag.

This spot was raised from fifty to sixty feet above the level of the
sea. The view was very extensive, but beyond the cape it ended in Union
Bay. Neither the islet nor Prospect Heights was visible, and could not
be from thence, for the rising ground and the curtain of trees closed
the northern horizon.

It is useless to add that notwithstanding the wide extent of sea which
the explorers could survey, and though the engineer swept the horizon
with his glass, no vessel could be found.

The shore was of course examined with the same care from the edge of the
water to the cliff, and nothing could be discovered even with the aid of
the instrument.

“Well,” said Gideon Spilett, “it seems we must make up our minds to
console ourselves with thinking that no one will come to dispute with us
the possession of Lincoln Island!”

“But the bullet,” cried Herbert. “That was not imaginary, I suppose!”

“Hang it, no!” exclaimed Pencroft, thinking of his absent tooth.

“Then what conclusion may be drawn?” asked the reporter.

“This,” replied the engineer, “that three months or more ago, a vessel,
either voluntarily or not, came here.”

“What! then you admit, Cyrus, that she was swallowed up without leaving
any trace?” cried the reporter.

“No, my dear Spilett; but you see that if it is certain that a human
being set foot on the island, it appears no less certain that he has now
left it.”

“Then, if I understand you right, captain,” said Herbert, “the vessel
has left again?”

“Evidently.”

“And we have lost an opportunity to get back to our country?” said Neb.

“I fear so.”

“Very well, since the opportunity is lost, let us go on; it can’t be
helped,” said Pencroft, who felt home-sickness for Granite House.

But just as they were rising, Top was heard loudly barking; and the dog
issued from the wood, holding in his mouth a rag soiled with mud.

Neb seized it. It was a piece of strong cloth!

Top still barked, and by his going and coming, seemed to invite his
master to follow him into the forest.

“Now there’s something to explain the bullet!” exclaimed Pencroft.

“A castaway!” replied Herbert.

“Wounded, perhaps!” said Neb.

“Or dead!” added the reporter.

All ran after the dog, among the tall pines on the border of the forest.
Harding and his companions made ready their firearms, in case of an
emergency.

They advanced some way into the wood, but to their great disappointment,
they as yet saw no signs of any human being having passed that way.
Shrubs and creepers were uninjured, and they had even to cut them away
with the axe, as they had done in the deepest recesses of the forest.
It was difficult to fancy that any human creature had ever passed there,
but yet Top went backward and forward, not like a dog who searches at
random, but like a dog being endowed with a mind, who is following up an
idea.

In about seven or eight minutes Top stopped in a glade surrounded with
tall trees. The settlers gazed around them, but saw nothing, neither
under the bushes nor among the trees.

“What is the matter, Top?” said Cyrus Harding.

Top barked louder, bounding about at the foot of a gigantic pine. All at
once Pencroft shouted,--“Ho, splendid! capital!”

“What is it?” asked Spilett.

“We have been looking for a wreck at sea or on land!”

“Well?”

“Well; and here we’ve found one in the air!”

And the sailor pointed to a great white rag, caught in the top of the
pine, a fallen scrap of which the dog had brought to them.

“But that is not a wreck!” cried Gideon Spilett.

“I beg your pardon!” returned Pencroft.

“Why? is it--?”

“It is all that remains of our airy boat, of our balloon, which has been
caught up aloft there, at the top of that tree!”

Pencroft was not mistaken, and he gave vent to his feelings in a
tremendous hurrah, adding,--

“There is good cloth! There is what will furnish us with linen for
years. There is what will make us handkerchiefs and shirts! Ha, ha, Mr.
Spilett, what do you say to an island where shirts grow on the trees?”

It was certainly a lucky circumstance for the settlers in Lincoln Island
that the balloon, after having made its last bound into the air, had
fallen on the island and thus given them the opportunity of finding it
again, whether they kept the case under its present form, or whether
they wished to attempt another escape by it, or whether they usefully
employed the several hundred yards of cotton, which was of fine quality.
Pencroft’s joy was therefore shared by all.

But it was necessary to bring down the remains of the balloon from
the tree, to place it in security, and this was no slight task. Neb,
Herbert, and the sailor, climbing to the summit of the tree, used all
their skill to disengage the now reduced balloon.

The operation lasted two hours, and then not only the case, with its
valve, its springs, its brasswork, lay on the ground, but the net, that
is to say a considerable quantity of ropes and cordage, and the
circle and the anchor. The case, except for the fracture, was in good
condition, only the lower portion being torn.

It was a fortune which had fallen from the sky.

“All the same, captain,” said the sailor, “if we ever decide to leave
the island, it won’t be in a balloon, will it? These airboats won’t go
where we want them to go, and we have had some experience in that way!
Look here, we will build a craft of some twenty tons, and then we can
make a main-sail, a foresail, and a jib out of that cloth. As to the
rest of it, that will help to dress us.”

“We shall see, Pencroft,” replied Cyrus Harding; “we shall see.”

“In the meantime, we must put it in a safe place,” said Neb.

They certainly could not think of carrying this load of cloth,
ropes, and cordage, to Granite House, for the weight of it was very
considerable, and while waiting for a suitable vehicle in which to
convey it, it was of importance that this treasure should not be left
longer exposed to the mercies of the first storm. The settlers, uniting
their efforts, managed to drag it as far as the shore, where they
discovered a large rocky cavity, which owing to its position could not
be visited either by the wind or rain.

“We needed a locker, and now we have one,” said Pencroft; “but as we
cannot lock it up, it will be prudent to hide the opening. I don’t mean
from two-legged thieves, but from those with four paws!”

At six o’clock, all was stowed away, and after having given the creek
the very suitable name of “Port Balloon,” the settlers pursued their
way along Claw Cape. Pencroft and the engineer talked of the different
projects which it was agreed to put into execution with the briefest
possible delay. It was necessary first of all to throw a bridge over the
Mercy, so as to establish an easy communication with the south of the
island; then the cart must be taken to bring back the balloon, for the
canoe alone could not carry it, then they would build a decked boat, and
Pencroft would rig it as a cutter, and they would be able to undertake
voyages of circumnavigation round the island, etc.

In the meanwhile night came on, and it was already dark when the
settlers reached Flotsam Point, where they had found the precious chest.

The distance between Flotsam Point and Granite House was another four
miles, and it was midnight when, after having followed the shore to the
mouth of the Mercy, the settlers arrived at the first angle formed by
the Mercy.

There the river was eighty feet in breadth, which was awkward to cross,
but as Pencroft had taken upon himself to conquer this difficulty, he
was compelled to do it. The settlers certainly had reason to be pretty
tired. The journey had been long, and the task of getting down the
balloon had not rested either their arms or legs. They were anxious
to reach Granite House to eat and sleep, and if the bridge had been
constructed, in a quarter of an hour they would have been at home.

The night was very dark. Pencroft prepared to keep his promise by
constructing a sort of raft, on which to make the passage of the Mercy.
He and Neb, armed with axes, chose two trees near the water, and began
to attack them at the base.

Cyrus Harding and Spilett, seated on the bank, waited till their
companions were ready for their help, while Herbert roamed about, though
without going to any distance. All at once, the lad, who had strolled by
the river, came running back, and, pointing up the Mercy, exclaimed,--

“What is floating there?”

Pencroft stopped working, and seeing an indistinct object moving through
the gloom,--

“A canoe!” cried he.

All approached, and saw to their extreme surprise, a boat floating down
the current.

“Boat ahoy!” shouted the sailor, without thinking that perhaps it would
be best to keep silence.

No reply. The boat still drifted onward, and it was not more than twelve
feet off, when the sailor exclaimed,--

“But it is our own boat! she has broken her moorings, and floated down
the current. I must say she has arrived very opportunely.”

“Our boat?” murmured the engineer.

Pencroft was right. It was indeed the canoe, of which the rope had
undoubtedly broken, and which had come alone from the sources of the
Mercy. It was very important to seize it before the rapid current should
have swept it away out of the mouth of the river, but Neb and Pencroft
cleverly managed this by means of a long pole.

The canoe touched the shore. The engineer leaped in first, and found,
on examining the rope, that it had been really worn through by rubbing
against the rocks.

“Well,” said the reporter to him, in a low voice, “this is a strange
thing.”

“Strange indeed!” returned Cyrus Harding.

Strange or not, it was very fortunate. Herbert, the reporter, Neb, and
Pencroft, embarked in turn. There was no doubt about the rope having
been worn through, but the astonishing part of the affair was, that the
boat should arrive just at the moment when the settlers were there to
seize it on its way, for a quarter of an hour earlier or later it would
have been lost in the sea.

If they had been living in the time of genii, this incident would
have given them the right to think that the island was haunted by some
supernatural being, who used his power in the service of the castaways!

A few strokes of the oar brought the settlers to the mouth of the
Mercy. The canoe was hauled up on the beach near the Chimneys, and all
proceeded towards the ladder of Granite House.

But at that moment, Top barked angrily, and Neb, who was looking for the
first steps, uttered a cry.

There was no longer a ladder!



Chapter 6

Cyrus Harding stood still, without saying a word. His companions
searched in the darkness on the wall, in case the wind should have
moved the ladder, and on the ground, thinking that it might have fallen
down.... But the ladder had quite disappeared. As to ascertaining if
a squall had blown it on the landing-place, half way up, that was
impossible in the dark.

“If it is a joke,” cried Pencroft, “it is a very stupid one! To come
home and find no staircase to go up to your room by--that’s nothing for
weary men to laugh at.”

Neb could do nothing but cry out “Oh! oh! oh!”

“I begin to think that very curious things happen in Lincoln Island!”
 said Pencroft.

“Curious?” replied Gideon Spilett, “not at all, Pencroft, nothing can be
more natural. Some one has come during our absence, taken possession of
our dwelling and drawn up the ladder.”

“Some one,” cried the sailor. “But who?”

“Who but the hunter who fired the bullet?” replied the reporter.

“Well, if there is any one up there,” replied Pencroft, who began to
lose patience, “I will give them a hail, and they must answer.”

And in a stentorian voice the sailor gave a prolonged “Halloo!” which
was echoed again and again from the cliff and rocks.

The settlers listened and they thought they heard a sort of chuckling
laugh, of which they could not guess the origin. But no voice replied to
Pencroft, who in vain repeated his vigorous shouts.

There was something indeed in this to astonish the most apathetic
of men, and the settlers were not men of that description. In their
situation every incident had its importance, and, certainly, during the
seven months which they had spent on the island, they had not before met
with anything of so surprising a character.

Be that as it may, forgetting their fatigue in the singularity of the
event, they remained below Granite House, not knowing what to think,
not knowing what to do, questioning each other without any hope of
a satisfactory reply, every one starting some supposition each more
unlikely than the last. Neb bewailed himself, much disappointed at not
being able to get into his kitchen, for the provisions which they
had had on their expedition were exhausted, and they had no means of
renewing them.

“My friends,” at last said Cyrus Harding, “there is only one thing to be
done at present; wait for day, and then act according to circumstances.
But let us go to the Chimneys. There we shall be under shelter, and if
we cannot eat, we can at least sleep.”

“But who is it that has played us this cool trick?” again asked
Pencroft, unable to make up his mind to retire from the spot.

Whoever it was, the only thing practicable was to do as the engineer
proposed, to go to the Chimneys and there wait for day. In the meanwhile
Top was ordered to mount guard below the windows of Granite House, and
when Top received an order he obeyed it without any questioning. The
brave dog therefore remained at the foot of the cliff while his master
with his companions sought a refuge among the rocks.

To say that the settlers, notwithstanding their fatigue, slept well on
the sandy floor of the Chimneys would not be true. It was not only that
they were extremely anxious to find out the cause of what had happened,
whether it was the result of an accident which would be discovered at
the return of day, or whether on the contrary it was the work of a human
being; but they also had very uncomfortable beds. That could not be
helped, however, for in some way or other at that moment their dwelling
was occupied, and they could not possibly enter it.

Now Granite House was more than their dwelling, it was their warehouse.
There were all the stores belonging to the colony, weapons, instruments,
tools, ammunition, provisions, etc. To think that all that might be
pillaged and that the settlers would have all their work to do over
again, fresh weapons and tools to make, was a serious matter. Their
uneasiness led one or other of them also to go out every few minutes to
see if Top was keeping good watch. Cyrus Harding alone waited with his
habitual patience, although his strong mind was exasperated at being
confronted with such an inexplicable fact, and he was provoked at
himself for allowing a feeling to which he could not give a name, to
gain an influence over him. Gideon Spilett shared his feelings in this
respect, and the two conversed together in whispers of the inexplicable
circumstance which baffled even their intelligence and experience.

“It is a joke,” said Pencroft; “it is a trick some one has played us.
Well, I don’t like such jokes, and the joker had better look out for
himself, if he falls into my hands, I can tell him.”

As soon as the first gleam of light appeared in the east, the colonists,
suitably armed, repaired to the beach under Granite House. The rising
sun now shone on the cliff and they could see the windows, the shutters
of which were closed, through the curtains of foliage.

All here was in order; but a cry escaped the colonists when they saw
that the door, which they had closed on their departure, was now wide
open.

Some one had entered Granite House--there could be no more doubt about
that.

The upper ladder, which generally hung from the door to the landing,
was in its place, but the lower ladder was drawn up and raised to
the threshold. It was evident that the intruders had wished to guard
themselves against a surprise.

Pencroft hailed again.

No reply.

“The beggars,” exclaimed the sailor. “There they are sleeping quietly
as if they were in their own house. Hallo there, you pirates, brigands,
robbers, sons of John Bull!”

When Pencroft, being a Yankee, treated any one to the epithet of “son of
John Bull,” he considered he had reached the last limits of insult.

The sun had now completely risen, and the whole facade of Granite House
became illuminated by its rays; but in the interior as well as on the
exterior all was quiet and calm.

The settlers asked if Granite House was inhabited or not, and yet the
position of the ladder was sufficient to show that it was; it was also
certain that the inhabitants, whoever they might be, had not been able
to escape. But how were they to be got at?

Herbert then thought of fastening a cord to an arrow, and shooting the
arrow so that it should pass between the first rounds of the ladder
which hung from the threshold. By means of the cord they would then
be able to draw down the ladder to the ground, and so re-establish the
communication between the beach and Granite House. There was evidently
nothing else to be done, and, with a little skill, this method might
succeed. Very fortunately bows and arrows had been left at the Chimneys,
where they also found a quantity of light hibiscus cord. Pencroft
fastened this to a well-feathered arrow. Then Herbert fixing it to his
bow, took a careful aim for the lower part of the ladder.

Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, Pencroft, and Neb drew back, so as to see
if anything appeared at the windows. The reporter lifted his gun to his
shoulder and covered the door.

The bow was bent, the arrow flew, taking the cord with it, and passed
between the two last rounds.

The operation had succeeded.

Herbert immediately seized the end of the cord, but, at that moment when
he gave it a pull to bring down the ladder, an arm, thrust suddenly out
between the wall and the door, grasped it and dragged it inside Granite
House.

“The rascals!” shouted the sailor. “If a ball can do anything for you,
you shall not have long to wait for it.

“But who was it?” asked Neb.

“Who was it? Didn’t you see?”

“No.”

“It was a monkey, a sapajou, an orangoutang, a baboon, a gorilla, a
sagoin. Our dwelling has been invaded by monkeys, who climbed up the
ladder during our absence.”

And, at this moment, as if to bear witness to the truth of the sailor’s
words, two or three quadrumana showed themselves at the windows,
from which they had pushed back the shutters, and saluted the real
proprietors of the place with a thousand hideous grimaces.

“I knew that it was only a joke,” cried Pencroft; “but one of the jokers
shall pay the penalty for the rest.”

So saying, the sailor, raising his piece, took a rapid aim at one of the
monkeys and fired. All disappeared, except one who fell mortally wounded
on the beach. This monkey, which was of a large size, evidently belonged
to the first order of the quadrumana. Whether this was a chimpanzee, an
orangoutang, or a gorilla, he took rank among the anthropoid apes, who
are so called from their resemblance to the human race. However, Herbert
declared it to be an orangoutang.

“What a magnificent beast!” cried Neb.

“Magnificent, if you like,” replied Pencroft; “but still I do not see
how we are to get into our house.”

“Herbert is a good marksman,” said the reporter, “and his bow is here.
He can try again.”

“Why, these apes are so cunning,” returned Pencroft; “they won’t show
themselves again at the windows and so we can’t kill them; and when I
think of the mischief they may do in the rooms and storehouse--”

“Have patience,” replied Harding; “these creatures cannot keep us long
at bay.”

“I shall not be sure of that till I see them down here,” replied the
sailor. “And now, captain, do you know how many dozens of these fellows
are up there?”

It was difficult to reply to Pencroft, and as for the young boy making
another attempt, that was not easy; for the lower part of the ladder
had been drawn again into the door, and when another pull was given, the
line broke and the ladder remained firm. The case was really perplexing.
Pencroft stormed. There was a comic side to the situation, but he did
not think it funny at all. It was certain that the settlers would end by
reinstating themselves in their domicile and driving out the intruders,
but when and how? this is what they were not able to say.

Two hours passed, during which the apes took care not to show
themselves, but they were still there, and three or four times a nose or
a paw was poked out at the door or windows, and was immediately saluted
by a gun-shot.

“Let us hide ourselves,” at last said the engineer. “Perhaps the apes
will think we have gone quite away and will show themselves again. Let
Spilett and Herbert conceal themselves behind those rocks and fire on
all that may appear.”

The engineer’s orders were obeyed, and while the reporter and the lad,
the best marksmen in the colony, posted themselves in a good position,
but out of the monkeys’ sight, Neb, Pencroft, and Cyrus climbed the
plateau and entered the forest in order to kill some game, for it was
now time for breakfast and they had no provisions remaining.

In half an hour the hunters returned with a few rock pigeons, which they
roasted as well as they could. Not an ape had appeared. Gideon Spilett
and Herbert went to take their share of the breakfast, leaving Top to
watch under the windows. They then, having eaten, returned to their
post.

Two hours later, their situation was in no degree improved. The
quadrumana gave no sign of existence, and it might have been supposed
that they had disappeared; but what seemed more probable was that,
terrified by the death of one of their companions, and frightened by the
noise of the firearms, they had retreated to the back part of the house
or probably even into the store-room. And when they thought of
the valuables which this storeroom contained, the patience so much
recommended by the engineer, fast changed into great irritation, and
there certainly was room for it.

“Decidedly it is too bad,” said the reporter; “and the worst of it is,
there is no way of putting an end to it.”

“But we must drive these vagabonds out somehow,” cried the sailor.
“We could soon get the better of them, even if there are twenty of the
rascals; but for that, we must meet them hand to hand. Come now, is
there no way of getting at them?”

“Let us try to enter Granite House by the old opening at the lake,”
 replied the engineer.

“Oh!” shouted the sailor, “and I never thought of that.”

This was in reality the only way by which to penetrate into Granite
House so as to fight with and drive out the intruders. The opening was,
it is true, closed up with a wall of cemented stones, which it would be
necessary to sacrifice, but that could easily be rebuilt. Fortunately,
Cyrus Harding had not as yet effected his project of hiding this opening
by raising the waters of the lake, for the operation would then have
taken some time.

It was already past twelve o’clock, when the colonists, well armed and
provided with picks and spades, left the Chimneys, passed beneath the
windows of Granite House, after telling Top to remain at his post, and
began to ascend the left bank of the Mercy, so as to reach Prospect
Heights.

But they had not made fifty steps in this direction, when they heard the
dog barking furiously.

And all rushed down the bank again.

Arrived at the turning, they saw that the situation had changed.

In fact, the apes, seized with a sudden panic, from some unknown cause,
were trying to escape. Two or three ran and clambered from one window
to another with the agility of acrobats. They were not even trying to
replace the ladder, by which it would have been easy to descend; perhaps
in their terror they had forgotten this way of escape. The colonists,
now being able to take aim without difficulty, fired. Some, wounded or
killed, fell back into the rooms, uttering piercing cries. The rest,
throwing themselves out, were dashed to pieces in their fall, and in a
few minutes, so far as they knew, there was not a living quadrumana in
Granite House.

At this moment the ladder was seen to slip over the threshold, then
unroll and fall to the ground.

“Hullo!” cried the sailor, “this is queer!”

“Very strange!” murmured the engineer, leaping first up the ladder.

“Take care, captain!” cried Pencroft, “perhaps there are still some of
these rascals.

“We shall soon see,” replied the engineer, without stopping however.

All his companions followed him, and in a minute they had arrived at the
threshold. They searched everywhere. There was no one in the rooms nor
in the storehouse, which had been respected by the band of quadrumana.

“Well now, and the ladder,” cried the sailor; “who can the gentleman
have been who sent us that down?”

But at that moment a cry was heard, and a great orang, who had hidden
himself in the passage, rushed into the room, pursued by Neb.

“Ah, the robber!” cried Pencroft.

And hatchet in hand, he was about to cleave the head of the animal, when
Cyrus Harding seized his arm, saying,--

“Spare him, Pencroft.”

“Pardon this rascal?”

“Yes! it was he who threw us the ladder!”

And the engineer said this in such a peculiar voice that it was
difficult to know whether he spoke seriously or not.

Nevertheless, they threw themselves on the orang, who defended himself
gallantly, but was soon overpowered and bound.

“There!” said Pencroft. “And what shall we make of him, now we’ve got
him?”

“A servant!” replied Herbert.

The lad was not joking in saying this, for he knew how this intelligent
race could be turned to account.

The settlers then approached the ape and gazed at it attentively. He
belonged to the family of anthropoid apes, of which the facial angle is
not much inferior to that of the Australians and Hottentots. It was an
orangoutang, and as such, had neither the ferocity of the gorilla, nor
the stupidity of the baboon. It is to this family of the anthropoid apes
that so many characteristics belong which prove them to be possessed
of an almost human intelligence. Employed in houses, they can wait at
table, sweep rooms, brush clothes, clean boots, handle a knife, fork,
and spoon properly, and even drink wine... doing everything as well as
the best servant that ever walked upon two legs. Buffon possessed one
of these apes, who served him for a long time as a faithful and zealous
servant.

The one which had been seized in the hall of Granite House was a great
fellow, six feet high, with an admirably poportioned frame, a broad
chest, head of a moderate size, the facial angle reaching sixty-five
degrees, round skull, projecting nose, skin covered with soft glossy
hair, in short, a fine specimen of the anthropoids. His eyes, rather
smaller than human eyes, sparkled with intelligence; his white teeth
glittered under his mustache, and he wore a little curly brown beard.

“A handsome fellow!” said Pencroft; “if we only knew his language, we
could talk to him.”

“But, master,” said Neb, “are you serious? Are we going to take him as a
servant?”

“Yes, Neb,” replied the engineer, smiling. “But you must not be
jealous.”

“And I hope he will make an excellent servant,” added Herbert. “He
appears young, and will be easy to educate, and we shall not be obliged
to use force to subdue him, nor draw his teeth, as is sometimes done. He
will soon grow fond of his masters if they are kind to him.”

“And they will be,” replied Pencroft, who had forgotten all his rancor
against “the jokers.”

Then, approaching the orang,--

“Well, old boy!” he asked, “how are you?”

The orang replied by a little grunt which did not show any anger.

“You wish to join the colony?” again asked the sailor. “You are going to
enter the service of Captain Cyrus Harding?”

Another respondent grunt was uttered by the ape.

“And you will be satisfied with no other wages than your food?”

Third affirmative grunt.

“This conversation is slightly monotonous,” observed Gideon Spilett.

“So much the better,” replied Pencroft; “the best servants are those who
talk the least. And then, no wages, do you hear, my boy? We will give
you no wages at first, but we will double them afterwards if we are
pleased with you.”

Thus the colony was increased by a new member. As to his name the sailor
begged that in memory of another ape which he had known, he might be
called Jupiter, and Jup for short.

And so, without more ceremony, Master Jup was installed in Granite
House.



Chapter 7

The settlers in Lincoln Island had now regained their dwelling, without
having been obliged to reach it by the old opening, and were therefore
spared the trouble of mason’s work. It was certainly lucky, that at the
moment they were about to set out to do so, the apes had been seized
with that terror, no less sudden than inexplicable, which had driven
them out of Granite House. Had the animals discovered that they
were about to be attacked from another direction? This was the only
explanation of their sudden retreat.

During the day the bodies of the apes were carried into the wood, where
they were buried; then the settlers busied themselves in repairing the
disorder caused by the intruders, disorder but not damage, for although
they had turned everything in the rooms topsy-turvy, yet they had broken
nothing. Neb relighted his stove, and the stores in the larder furnished
a substantial repast, to which all did ample justice.

Jup was not forgotten, and he ate with relish some stonepine almonds
and rhizome roots, with which he was abundantly supplied. Pencroft had
unfastened his arms, but judged it best to have his legs tied until they
were more sure of his submission.

Then, before retiring to rest, Harding and his companions seated round
their table, discussed those plans, the execution of which was most
pressing. The most important and most urgent was the establishment of a
bridge over the Mercy, so as to form a communication with the southern
part of the island and Granite House; then the making of an enclosure
for the musmons or other woolly animals which they wished to capture.

These two projects would help to solve the difficulty as to their
clothing, which was now serious. The bridge would render easy the
transport of the balloon case, which would furnish them with linen, and
the inhabitants of the enclosure would yield wool which would supply
them with winter clothes.

As to the enclosure, it was Cyrus Harding’s intention to establish it at
the sources of the Red Creek, where the ruminants would find fresh and
abundant pasture. The road between Prospect Heights and the sources of
the stream was already partly beaten, and with a better cart than the
first, the material could be easily conveyed to the spot, especially if
they could manage to capture some animals to draw it.

But though there might be no inconvenience in the enclosure being so far
from Granite House, it would not be the same with the poultry-yard, to
which Neb called the attention of the colonists. It was indeed necessary
that the birds should be close within reach of the cook, and no place
appeared more favorable for the establishment of the said poultry-yard
than that portion of the banks of the lake which was close to the old
opening.

Water-birds would prosper there as well as others, and the couple
of tinamous taken in their last excursion would be the first to be
domesticated.

The next day, the 3rd of November, the new works were begun by the
construction of the bridge, and all hands were required for this
important task. Saws, hatchets, and hammers were shouldered by the
settlers, who, now transformed into carpenters, descended to the shore.

There Pencroft observed,--

“Suppose, that during our absence, Master Jup takes it into his head to
draw up the ladder which he so politely returned to us yesterday?”

“Let us tie its lower end down firmly,” replied Cyrus Harding.

This was done by means of two stakes securely fixed in the sand. Then
the settlers, ascending the left bank of the Mercy, soon arrived at the
angle formed by the river.

There they halted, in order to ascertain if the bridge could be thrown
across. The place appeared suitable.

In fact, from this spot, to Port Balloon, discovered the day before on
the southern coast, there was only a distance of three miles and a
half, and from the bridge to the Port, it would be easy to make a good
cart-road which would render the communication between Granite House and
the south of the island extremely easy.

Cyrus Harding now imparted to his companions a scheme for completely
isolating Prospect Heights so as to shelter it from the attacks both of
quadrupeds and quadrumana. In this way, Granite House, the Chimneys, the
poultry-yard, and all the upper part of the plateau which was to be used
for cultivation, would be protected against the depredations of animals.
Nothing could be easier than to execute this project, and this is how
the engineer intended to set to work.

The plateau was already defended on three sides by water-courses, either
artificial or natural. On the northwest, by the shores of Lake Grant,
from the entrance of the passage to the breach made in the banks of the
lake for the escape of the water.

On the north, from this breach to the sea, by the new water-course which
had hollowed out a bed for itself across the plateau and shore, above
and below the fall, and it would be enough to dig the bed of this creek
a little deeper to make it impracticable for animals, on all the eastern
border by the sea itself, from the mouth of the aforesaid creek to the
mouth of the Mercy.

Lastly, on the south, from the mouth to the turn of the Mercy where the
bridge was to be established.

The western border of the plateau now remained between the turn of the
river and the southern angle of the lake, a distance of about a mile,
which was open to all comers. But nothing could be easier than to dig a
broad deep ditch, which could be filled from the lake, and the overflow
of which would throw itself by a rapid fall into the bed of the Mercy.
The level of the lake would, no doubt, be somewhat lowered by this fresh
discharge of its waters, but Cyrus Harding had ascertained that the
volume of water in the Red Creek was considerable enough to allow of the
execution of this project.

“So then,” added the engineer, “Prospect Heights will become a regular
island, being surrounded with water on all sides, and only communicating
with the rest of our domain by the bridge which we are about to throw
across the Mercy, the two little bridges already established above and
below the fall; and, lastly, two other little bridges which must be
constructed, one over the canal which I propose to dig, the other across
to the left bank of the Mercy. Now, if these bridges can be raised at
will, Prospect Heights will be guarded from any surprise.”

The bridge was the most urgent work. Trees were selected, cut down,
stripped of their branches, and cut into beams, joists, and planks. The
end of the bridge which rested on the right bank of the Mercy was to be
firm, but the other end on the left bank was to be movable, so that it
might be raised by means of a counterpoise, as some canal bridges are
managed.

This was certainly a considerable work, and though it was skillfully
conducted, it took some time, for the Mercy at this place was eighty
feet wide. It was therefore necessary to fix piles in the bed of
the river so as to sustain the floor of the bridge and establish a
pile-driver to act on the tops of these piles, which would thus form two
arches and allow the bridge to support heavy loads.

Happily there was no want of tools with which to shape the wood, nor
of iron-work to make it firm, nor of the ingenuity of a man who had a
marvelous knowledge of the work, nor lastly, the zeal of his companions,
who in seven months had necessarily acquired great skill in the use of
their tools; and it must be said that not the least skilful was Gideon
Spilett, who in dexterity almost equaled the sailor himself. “Who would
ever have expected so much from a newspaper man!” thought Pencroft.

The construction of the Mercy bridge lasted three weeks of regular
hard work. They even breakfasted on the scene of their labors, and the
weather being magnificent, they only returned to Granite House to sleep.

During this period it may be stated that Master Jup grew more accustomed
to his new masters, whose movements he always watched with very
inquisitive eyes. However, as a precautionary measure, Pencroft did not
as yet allow him complete liberty, rightly wishing to wait until the
limits of the plateau should be settled by the projected works. Top
and Jup were good friends and played willingly together, but Jup did
everything solemnly.

On the 20th of November the bridge was finished. The movable part,
balanced by the counterpoise, swung easily, and only a slight effort was
needed to raise it; between its hinge and the last cross-bar on which
it rested when closed, there existed a space of twenty feet, which was
sufficiently wide to prevent any animals from crossing.

The settlers now began to talk of fetching the balloon-case, which they
were anxious to place in perfect security; but to bring it, it would be
necessary to take a cart to Port Balloon, and consequently, necessary to
beat a road through the dense forests of the Far West. This would take
some time. Also, Neb and Pencroft having gone to examine into the state
of things at Port Balloon, and reported that the stock of cloth would
suffer no damage in the grotto where it was stored, it was decided that
the work at Prospect Heights should not be discontinued.

“That,” observed Pencroft, “will enable us to establish our poultry-yard
under better conditions, since we need have no fear of visits from foxes
nor the attacks of other beasts.”

“Then,” added Neb, “we can clear the plateau, and transplant wild plants
to it.”

“And prepare our second corn-field!” cried the sailor with a triumphant
air.

In fact, the first corn-field sown with a single grain had prospered
admirably, thanks to Pencroft’s care. It had produced the ten ears
foretold by the engineer, and each ear containing eighty grains, the
colony found itself in possession of eight hundred grains, in six
months, which promised a double harvest each year.

These eight hundred grains, except fifty, which were prudently reserved,
were to be sown in a new field, but with no less care than was bestowed
on the single grain.

The field was prepared, then surrounded with a strong palisade, high and
pointed, which quadrupeds would have found difficulty in leaping. As to
birds, some scarecrows, due to Pencroft’s ingenious brain, were enough
to frighten them. The seven hundred and fifty grains deposited in very
regular furrows were then left for nature to do the rest.

On the 21st of November, Cyrus Harding began to plan the canal which was
to close the plateau on the west, from the south angle of Lake Grant to
the angle of the Mercy. There was there two or three feet of vegetable
earth, and below that granite. It was therefore necessary to manufacture
some more nitro-glycerine, and the nitro-glycerine did its accustomed
work. In less than a fortnight a ditch, twelve feet wide and six deep,
was dug out in the hard ground of the plateau. A new trench was made by
the same means in the rocky border of the lake, forming a small stream,
to which they gave the name of Creek Glycerine, and which was thus an
affluent of the Mercy. As the engineer had predicted, the level of the
lake was lowered, though very slightly. To complete the enclosure the
bed of the stream on the beach was considerably enlarged, and the sand
supported by means of stakes.

By the end of the first fortnight of December these works were finished,
and Prospect Heights--that is to say, a sort of irregular pentagon,
having a perimeter of nearly four miles, surrounded by a liquid
belt--was completely protected from depredators of every description.

During the month of December, the heat was very great. In spite of it,
however, the settlers continued their work, and as they were anxious to
possess a poultry-yard they forthwith commenced it.

It is useless to say that since the enclosing of the plateau had been
completed, Master Jup had been set at liberty. He did not leave his
masters, and evinced no wish to escape. He was a gentle animal, though
very powerful and wonderfully active. He was already taught to make
himself useful by drawing loads of wood and carting away the stones
which were extracted from the bed of Creek Glycerine.

The poultry-yard occupied an area of two hundred square yards, on the
southeastern bank of the lake. It was surrounded by a palisade, and
in it were constructed various shelters for the birds which were to
populate it. These were simply built of branches and divided into
compartments, made ready for the expected guests.

The first were the two tinamous, which were not long in having a number
of young ones; they had for companions half a dozen ducks, accustomed to
the borders of the lake. Some belonged to the Chinese species, of which
the wings open like a fan, and which by the brilliancy of their plumage
rival the golden pheasants. A few days afterwards, Herbert snared a
couple of gallinaceae, with spreading tails composed of long feathers,
magnificent alectors, which soon became tame. As to pelicans,
kingfishers, water-hens, they came of themselves to the shores of the
poultry-yard, and this little community, after some disputes, cooing,
screaming, clucking, ended by settling down peacefully, and increased in
encouraging proportion for the future use of the colony.

Cyrus Harding, wishing to complete his performance, established a
pigeon-house in a corner of the poultry-yard. There he lodged a dozen
of those pigeons which frequented the rocks of the plateau. These birds
soon became accustomed to returning every evening to their new dwelling,
and showed more disposition to domesticate themselves than their
congeners, the wood-pigeons.

Lastly, the time had come for turning the balloon-case to use, by
cutting it up to make shirts and other articles; for as to keeping it in
its present form, and risking themselves in a balloon filled with gas,
above a sea of the limits of which they had no idea, it was not to be
thought of.

It was necessary to bring the case to Granite House, and the colonists
employed themselves in rendering their heavy cart lighter and more
manageable. But though they had a vehicle, the moving power was yet to
be found.

But did there not exist in the island some animal which might supply the
place of the horse, ass, or ox? That was the question.

“Certainly,” said Pencroft, “a beast of burden would be very useful to
us until the captain has made a steam cart, or even an engine, for some
day we shall have a railroad from Granite House to Port Balloon, with a
branch line to Mount Franklin!”

One day, the 23rd of December, Neb and Top were heard shouting and
barking, each apparently trying to see who could make the most noise.
The settlers, who were busy at the Chimneys, ran, fearing some vexatious
incident.

What did they see? Two fine animals of a large size that had imprudently
ventured on the plateau, when the bridges were open. One would have said
they were horses, or at least donkeys, male and female, of a fine shape,
dove-colored, the legs and tail white, striped with black on the head
and neck. They advanced quietly without showing any uneasiness, and
gazed at the men, in whom they could not as yet recognize their future
masters.

“These are onagers!” cried Herbert, “animals something between the zebra
and the quagga!”

“Why not donkeys?” asked Neb.

“Because they have not long ears, and their shape is more graceful!”

“Donkeys or horses,” interrupted Pencroft, “they are ‘moving powers,’ as
the captain would say, and as such must be captured!”

The sailor, without frightening the animals, crept through the grass
to the bridge over Creek Glycerine, lowered it, and the onagers were
prisoners.

Now, should they seize them with violence and master them by force? No.
It was decided that for a few days they should be allowed to roam
freely about the plateau, where there was an abundance of grass, and the
engineer immediately began to prepare a stable near the poultry-yard,
in which the onagers might find food, with a good litter, and shelter
during the night.

This done, the movements of the two magnificent creatures were left
entirely free, and the settlers avoided even approaching them so as to
terrify them. Several times, however, the onagers appeared to wish to
leave the plateau, too confined for animals accustomed to the plains
and forests. They were then seen following the water-barrier which
everywhere presented itself before them, uttering short neighs, then
galloping through the grass, and becoming calmer, they would remain
entire hours gazing at the woods, from which they were cut off for ever!

In the meantime harness of vegetable fiber had been manufactured, and
some days after the capture of the onagers, not only the cart was ready,
but a straight road, or rather a cutting, had been made through the
forests of the Far West, from the angle of the Mercy to Port Balloon.
The cart might then be driven there, and towards the end of December
they tried the onagers for the first time.

Pencroft had already coaxed the animals to come and eat out of his hand,
and they allowed him to approach without making any difficulty, but once
harnessed they reared and could with difficulty be held in. However, it
was not long before they submitted to this new service, for the onager,
being less refractory than the zebra, is frequently put in harness
in the mountainous regions of Southern Africa, and it has even been
acclimatized in Europe, under zones of a relative coolness.

On this day all the colony, except Pencroft who walked at the animals’
heads, mounted the cart, and set out on the road to Port Balloon.

Of course they were jolted over the somewhat rough road, but the vehicle
arrived without any accident, and was soon loaded with the case and
rigging of the balloon.

At eight o’clock that evening the cart, after passing over the Mercy
bridge, descended the left bank of the river, and stopped on the beach.
The onagers being unharnessed, were thence led to their stable, and
Pencroft before going to sleep gave vent to his feelings in a deep sigh
of satisfaction that awoke all the echoes of Granite House.



Chapter 8

The first week of January was devoted to the manufacture of the linen
garments required by the colony. The needles found in the box were used
by sturdy if not delicate fingers, and we may be sure that what was sewn
was sewn firmly.

There was no lack of thread, thanks to Cyrus Harding’s idea of
re-employing that which had been already used in the covering of the
balloon. This with admirable patience was all unpicked by Gideon Spilett
and Herbert, for Pencroft had been obliged to give this work up, as it
irritated him beyond measure; but he had no equal in the sewing part
of the business. Indeed, everybody knows that sailors have a remarkable
aptitude for tailoring.

The cloth of which the balloon-case was made was then cleaned by means
of soda and potash, obtained by the incineration of plants, in such a
way that the cotton, having got rid of the varnish, resumed its natural
softness and elasticity; then, exposed to the action of the atmosphere,
it soon became perfectly white. Some dozen shirts and sock--the latter
not knitted, of course, but made of cotton--were thus manufactured. What
a comfort it was to the settlers to clothe themselves again in clean
linen, which was doubtless rather rough, but they were not troubled
about that! and then to go to sleep between sheets, which made the
couches at Granite House into quite comfortable beds!

It was about this time also that they made boots of seal-leather, which
were greatly needed to replace the shoes and boots brought from America.
We may be sure that these new shoes were large enough and never pinched
the feet of the wearers.

With the beginning of the year 1866 the heat was very great, but
the hunting in the forests did not stand still. Agouties, peccaries,
capybaras, kangaroos, game of all sorts, actually swarmed there, and
Spilett and Herbert were too good marksmen ever to throw away their shot
uselessly.

Cyrus Harding still recommended them to husband the ammunition, and he
took measures to replace the powder and shot which had been found in
the box, and which he wished to reserve for the future. How did he know
where chance might one day cast his companions and himself in the
event of their leaving their domain? They should, then, prepare for the
unknown future by husbanding their ammunition and by substituting for it
some easily renewable substance.

To replace lead, of which Harding had found no traces in the island, he
employed granulated iron, which was easy to manufacture. These bullets,
not having the weight of leaden bullets, were made larger, and each
charge contained less, but the skill of the sportsmen made up this
deficiency. As to powder, Cyrus Harding would have been able to make
that also, for he had at his disposal saltpeter, sulphur, and coal; but
this preparation requires extreme care, and without special tools it is
difficult to produce it of a good quality. Harding preferred, therefore,
to manufacture pyroxyle, that is to say gun-cotton, a substance in which
cotton is not indispensable, as the elementary tissue of vegetables may
be used, and this is found in an almost pure state, not only in cotton,
but in the textile fiber of hemp and flax, in paper, the pith of the
elder, etc. Now, the elder abounded in the island towards the mouth of
Red Creek, and the colonists had already made coffee of the berries of
these shrubs, which belong to the family of the caprifoliaceae.

The only thing to be collected, therefore, was elder-pith, for as to the
other substance necessary for the manufacture of pyroxyle, it was only
fuming azotic acid. Now, Harding having sulphuric acid at his disposal,
had already been easily able to produce azotic acid by attacking the
saltpeter with which nature supplied him. He accordingly resolved to
manufacture and employ pyroxyle, although it has some inconveniences,
that is to say, a great inequality of effect, an excessive
inflammability, since it takes fire at one hundred and seventy
degrees instead of two hundred and forty, and lastly, an instantaneous
deflagration which might damage the firearms. On the other hand, the
advantages of pyroxyle consist in this, that it is not injured by damp,
that it does not make the gun-barrels dirty, and that its force is four
times that of ordinary powder.

To make pyroxyle, the cotton must be immersed in the fuming azotic acid
for a quarter of an hour, then washed in cold water and dried. Nothing
could be more simple.

Cyrus Harding had only at his disposal the ordinary azotic acid and not
the fuming or monohydrate azotic acid, that is to say, acid which emits
white vapors when it comes in contact with damp air; but by substituting
for the latter ordinary azotic acid, mixed, in the proportion of from
three to five volumes of concentrated sulphuric acid, the engineer
obtained the same result. The sportsmen of the island therefore soon
had a perfectly prepared substance, which, employed discreetly, produced
admirable results.

About this time the settlers cleared three acres of the plateau, and
the rest was preserved in a wild state, for the benefit of the onagers.
Several excursions were made into the Jacamar Wood and the forests of
the Far West, and they brought back from thence a large collection of
wild vegetables, spinach, cress, radishes, and turnips, which careful
culture would soon improve, and which would temper the regimen on which
the settlers had till then subsisted. Supplies of wood and coal were
also carted. Each excursion was at the same time a means of improving
the roads, which gradually became smoother under the wheels of the cart.

The rabbit-warren still continued to supply the larder of Granite House.
As fortunately it was situated on the other side of Creek Glycerine,
its inhabitants could not reach the plateau nor ravage the newly-made
plantation. The oyster-bed among the rocks was frequently renewed and
furnished excellent molluscs. Besides that, the fishing, either in
the lake or the Mercy, was very profitable, for Pencroft had made some
lines, armed with iron hooks, with which they frequently caught fine
trout, and a species of fish whose silvery sides were speckled with
yellow, and which were also extremely savory. Master Neb, who was
skilled in the culinary art, knew how to vary agreeably the bill of
fare. Bread alone was wanting at the table of the settlers, and as has
been said, they felt this privation greatly.

The settlers hunted too the turtles which frequented the shores of
Cape Mandible. At this place the beach was covered with little mounds,
concealing perfectly spherical turtles’ eggs, with white hard shells,
the albumen of which does not coagulate as that of birds’ eggs. They
were hatched by the sun, and their number was naturally considerable, as
each turtle can lay annually two hundred and fifty.

“A regular egg-field,” observed Gideon Spilett, “and we have nothing to
do but to pick them up.”

But not being contented with simply the produce, they made chase after
the producers, the result of which was that they were able to bring back
to Granite House a dozen of these chelonians, which were really valuable
from an alimentary point of view. The turtle soup, flavored with
aromatic herbs, often gained well-merited praises for its preparer, Neb.

We must here mention another fortunate circumstance by which new stores
for the winter were laid in. Shoals of salmon entered the Mercy, and
ascended the country for several miles. It was the time at which the
females, going to find suitable places in which to spawn, precede the
males and make a great noise through the fresh water. A thousand of
these fish, which measured about two feet and a half in length, came up
the river, and a large quantity were retained by fixing dams across
the stream. More than a hundred were thus taken, which were salted and
stored for the time when winter, freezing up the streams, would render
fishing impracticable. By this time the intelligent Jup was raised
to the duty of valet. He had been dressed in a jacket, white linen
breeches, and an apron, the pockets of which were his delight. The
clever orang had been marvelously trained by Neb, and any one would have
said that the Negro and the ape understood each other when they talked
together. Jup had besides a real affection for Neb, and Neb returned
it. When his services were not required, either for carrying wood or for
climbing to the top of some tree, Jup passed the greatest part of his
time in the kitchen, where he endeavored to imitate Neb in all that he
saw him do. The black showed the greatest patience and even extreme
zeal in instructing his pupil, and the pupil exhibited remarkable
intelligence in profiting by the lessons he received from his master.

Judge then of the pleasure Master Jup gave to the inhabitants of Granite
House when, without their having had any idea of it, he appeared one
day, napkin on his arm, ready to wait at table. Quick, attentive, he
acquitted himself perfectly, changing the plates, bringing dishes,
pouring out water, all with a gravity which gave intense amusement to
the settlers, and which enraptured Pencroft.

“Jup, some soup!”

“Jup, a little agouti!”

“Jup, a plate!”

“Jup! Good Jup! Honest Jup!”

Nothing was heard but that, and Jup without ever being disconcerted,
replied to every one, watched for everything, and he shook his head in a
knowing way when Pencroft, referring to his joke of the first day, said
to him,--

“Decidedly, Jup, your wages must be doubled.”

It is useless to say that the orang was now thoroughly domesticated at
Granite House, and that he often accompanied his masters to the forest
without showing any wish to leave them. It was most amusing to see him
walking with a stick which Pencroft had given him, and which he carried
on his shoulder like a gun. If they wished to gather some fruit from
the summit of a tree, how quickly he climbed for it. If the wheel of the
cart stuck in the mud, with what energy did Jup with a single heave of
his shoulder put it right again.

“What a jolly fellow he is!” cried Pencroft often. “If he was as
mischievous as he is good, there would be no doing anything with him!”

It was towards the end of January the colonists began their labors in
the center of the island. It had been decided that a corral should be
established near the sources of the Red Creek, at the foot of Mount
Franklin, destined to contain the ruminants, whose presence would have
been troublesome at Granite House, and especially for the musmons, who
were to supply the wool for the settlers’ winter garments.

Each morning, the colony, sometimes entire, but more often represented
only by Harding, Herbert, and Pencroft, proceeded to the sources of the
Creek, a distance of not more than five miles, by the newly beaten road
to which the name of Corral Road had been given.

There a site was chosen, at the back of the southern ridge of the
mountain. It was a meadow land, dotted here and there with clumps of
trees, and watered by a little stream, which sprung from the slopes
which closed it in on one side. The grass was fresh, and it was not
too much shaded by the trees which grew about it. This meadow was to
be surrounded by a palisade, high enough to prevent even the most agile
animals from leaping over. This enclosure would be large enough to
contain a hundred musmons and wild goats, with all the young ones they
might produce.

The perimeter of the corral was then traced by the engineer, and
they would then have proceeded to fell the trees necessary for the
construction of the palisade, but as the opening up of the road had
already necessitated the sacrifice of a considerable number, those were
brought and supplied a hundred stakes, which were firmly fixed in the
ground.

The construction of this corral did not take less than three weeks,
for besides the palisade, Cyrus Harding built large sheds, in which the
animals could take shelter. These buildings had also to be made very
strong, for musmons are powerful animals, and their first fury was to be
feared. The stakes, sharpened at their upper end and hardened by fire,
had been fixed by means of cross-bars, and at regular distances props
assured the solidity of the whole.

The corral finished, a raid had to be made on the pastures frequented
by the ruminants. This was done on the 7th of February, on a beautiful
summer’s day, and every one took part in it. The onagers, already well
trained, were ridden by Spilett and Herbert, and were of great use.

The maneuver consisted simply in surrounding the musmons and goats, and
gradually narrowing the circle around them. Cyrus Harding, Pencroft,
Neb, and Jup, posted themselves in different parts of the wood, while
the two cavaliers and Top galloped in a radius of half a mile round the
corral.

The musmons were very numerous in this part of the island. These fine
animals were as large as deer; their horns were stronger than those of
the ram, and their gray-colored fleece was mixed with long hair.

This hunting day was very fatiguing. Such going and coming, and running
and riding and shouting! Of a hundred musmons which had been surrounded,
more than two-thirds escaped, but at last, thirty of these animals and
ten wild goats were gradually driven back towards the corral, the open
door of which appearing to offer a means of escape, they rushed in and
were prisoners.

In short, the result was satisfactory, and the settlers had no reason to
complain. There was no doubt that the flock would prosper, and that at
no distant time not only wool but hides would be abundant.

That evening the hunters returned to Granite House quite exhausted.
However, notwithstanding their fatigue, they returned the next day
to visit the corral. The prisoners had been trying to overthrow the
palisade, but of course had not succeeded, and were not long in becoming
more tranquil.

During the month of February, no event of any importance occurred. The
daily labors were pursued methodically, and, as well as improving the
roads to the corral and to Port Balloon, a third was commenced, which,
starting from the enclosure, proceeded towards the western coast. The
yet unknown portion of Lincoln Island was that of the wood-covered
Serpentine Peninsula, which sheltered the wild beasts, from which Gideon
Spilett was so anxious to clear their domain.

Before the cold season should appear the most assiduous care was given
to the cultivation of the wild plants which had been transplanted from
the forest to Prospect Heights. Herbert never returned from an excursion
without bringing home some useful vegetable. One day, it was some
specimens of the chicory tribe, the seeds of which by pressure yield an
excellent oil; another, it was some common sorrel, whose antiscorbutic
qualities were not to be despised; then, some of those precious tubers,
which have at all times been cultivated in South America, potatoes, of
which more than two hundred species are now known. The kitchen garden,
now well stocked and carefully defended from the birds, was divided
into small beds, where grew lettuces, kidney potatoes, sorrel, turnips,
radishes, and other coneiferae. The soil on the plateau was particularly
fertile, and it was hoped that the harvests would be abundant.

They had also a variety of different beverages, and so long as they did
not demand wine, the most hard to please would have had no reason to
complain. To the Oswego tea, and the fermented liquor extracted from the
roots of the dragonnier, Harding had added a regular beer, made from
the young shoots of the spruce-fir, which, after having been boiled
and fermented, made that agreeable drink called by the Anglo-Americans
spring-beer.

Towards the end of the summer, the poultry-yard was possessed of
a couple of fine bustards, which belonged to the houbara species,
characterized by a sort of feathery mantle; a dozen shovelers, whose
upper mandible was prolonged on each side by a membraneous appendage;
and also some magnificent cocks, similar to the Mozambique cocks,
the comb, caruncle, and epidermis being black. So far, everything had
succeeded, thanks to the activity of these courageous and intelligent
men. Nature did much for them, doubtless; but faithful to the great
precept, they made a right use of what a bountiful Providence gave them.

After the heat of these warm summer days, in the evening when their work
was finished and the sea-breeze began to blow, they liked to sit on the
edge of Prospect Heights, in a sort of veranda, covered with creepers,
which Neb had made with his own hands. There they talked, they
instructed each other, they made plans, and the rough good-humor of
the sailor always amused this little world, in which the most perfect
harmony had never ceased to reign.

They often spoke of their country, of their dear and great America. What
was the result of the War of Secession? It could not have been greatly
prolonged. Richmond had doubtless soon fallen into the hands of General
Grant. The taking of the capital of the Confederates must have been the
last action of this terrible struggle. Now the North had triumphed in
the good cause, how welcome would have been a newspaper to the exiles in
Lincoln Island! For eleven months all communication between them and the
rest of their fellow-creatures had been interrupted, and in a short time
the 24th of March would arrive, the anniversary of the day on which
the balloon had thrown them on this unknown coast. They were then mere
castaways, not even knowing how they should preserve their miserable
lives from the fury of the elements! And now, thanks to the knowledge of
their captain, and their own intelligence, they were regular colonists,
furnished with arms, tools, and instruments; they had been able to turn
to their profit the animals, plants, and minerals of the island, that is
to say, the three kingdoms of Nature.

Yes; they often talked of all these things and formed still more plans.

As to Cyrus Harding he was for the most part silent, and listened to
his companions more often than he spoke to them. Sometimes he smiled
at Herbert’s ideas or Pencroft’s nonsense, but always and everywhere he
pondered over those inexplicable facts, that strange enigma, of which
the secret still escaped him!



Chapter 9

The weather changed during the first week of March. There had been a
full moon at the commencement of the month, and the heat was excessive.
The atmosphere was felt to be full of electricity, and a period of some
length of tempestuous weather was to be feared.

Indeed, on the 2nd, peals of thunder were heard, the wind blew from the
east, and hail rattled against the facade of Granite House like
volleys of grape-shot. The door and windows were immediately closed,
or everything in the rooms would have been drenched. On seeing these
hailstones, some of which were the size of a pigeon’s egg, Pencroft’s
first thought was that his cornfield was in serious danger.

He directly rushed to his field, where little green heads were already
appearing, and by means of a great cloth, he managed to protect his
crop.

This bad weather lasted a week, during which time the thunder rolled
without cessation in the depths of the sky.

The colonists, not having any pressing work out of doors, profited
by the bad weather to work at the interior of Granite House, the
arrangement of which was becoming more complete from day to day. The
engineer made a turning-lathe, with which he turned several articles
both for the toilet and the kitchen, particularly buttons, the want of
which was greatly felt. A gunrack had been made for the firearms, which
were kept with extreme care, and neither tables nor cupboards were left
incomplete. They sawed, they planed, they filed, they turned; and during
the whole of this bad season, nothing was heard but the grinding
of tools or the humming of the turning-lathe which responded to the
growling of the thunder.

Master Jup had not been forgotten, and he occupied a room at the back,
near the storeroom, a sort of cabin with a cot always full of good
litter, which perfectly suited his taste.

“With good old Jup there is never any quarreling,” often repeated
Pencroft, “never any improper reply. What a servant, Neb, what a
servant!”

Of course Jup was now well used to service. He brushed their clothes,
he turned the spit, he waited at table, he swept the rooms, he gathered
wood, and he performed another admirable piece of service which
delighted Pencroft--he never went to sleep without first coming to tuck
up the worthy sailor in his bed.

As to the health of the members of the colony, bipeds or bimana,
quadrumana or quadrupeds, it left nothing to be desired. With their life
in the open air, on this salubrious soil, under that temperate zone,
working both with head and hands, they could not suppose that illness
would ever attack them.

All were indeed wonderfully well. Herbert had already grown two inches
in the year. His figure was forming and becoming more manly, and he
promised to be an accomplished man, physically as well as morally.
Besides he improved himself during the leisure hours which manual
occupations left to him; he read the books found in the case; and after
the practical lessons which were taught by the very necessity of their
position, he found in the engineer for science, and the reporter for
languages, masters who were delighted to complete his education.

The tempest ended about the 9th of March, but the sky remained covered
with clouds during the whole of this last summer month. The atmosphere,
violently agitated by the electric commotions, could not recover its
former purity, and there was almost invariably rain and fog, except for
three or four fine days on which several excursions were made. About
this time the female onager gave birth to a young one which belonged to
the same sex as its mother, and which throve capitally. In the corral,
the flock of musmons had also increased, and several lambs already
bleated in the sheds, to the great delight of Neb and Herbert, who had
each their favorite among these newcomers. An attempt was also made
for the domestication of the peccaries, which succeeded well. A sty was
constructed under the poultry-yard, and soon contained several young
ones in the way to become civilized, that is to say, to become fat
under Neb’s care. Master Jup, entrusted with carrying them their
daily nourishment, leavings from the kitchen, etc., acquitted himself
conscientiously of his task. He sometimes amused himself at the expense
of his little pensioners by tweaking their tails; but this was mischief,
and not wickedness, for these little twisted tails amused him like a
plaything, and his instinct was that of a child. One day in this month
of March, Pencroft, talking to the engineer, reminded Cyrus Harding of a
promise which the latter had not as yet had time to fulfil.

“You once spoke of an apparatus which would take the place of the long
ladders at Granite House, captain,” said he; “won’t you make it some
day?”

“Nothing will be easier; but is this a really useful thing?”

“Certainly, captain. After we have given ourselves necessaries, let us
think a little of luxury. For us it may be luxury, if you like, but
for things it is necessary. It isn’t very convenient to climb up a long
ladder when one is heavily loaded.”

“Well, Pencroft, we will try to please you,” replied Cyrus Harding.

“But you have no machine at your disposal.”

“We will make one.”

“A steam machine?”

“No, a water machine.”

And, indeed, to work his apparatus there was already a natural force
at the disposal of the engineer which could be used without great
difficulty. For this, it was enough to augment the flow of the little
stream which supplied the interior of Granite House with water. The
opening among the stones and grass was then increased, thus producing
a strong fall at the bottom of the passage, the overflow from which
escaped by the inner well. Below this fall the engineer fixed a cylinder
with paddles, which was joined on the exterior with a strong cable
rolled on a wheel, supporting a basket. In this way, by means of a long
rope reaching to the ground, which enabled them to regulate the motive
power, they could rise in the basket to the door of Granite House.

It was on the 17th of March that the lift acted for the first time, and
gave universal satisfaction. Henceforward all the loads, wood, coal,
provisions, and even the settlers themselves, were hoisted by this
simple system, which replaced the primitive ladder, and, as may be
supposed, no one thought of regretting the change. Top particularly was
enchanted with this improvement, for he had not, and never could have
possessed Master Jup’s skill in climbing ladders, and often it was on
Neb’s back, or even on that of the orang that he had been obliged to
make the ascent to Granite House. About this time, too, Cyrus Harding
attempted to manufacture glass, and he at first put the old pottery-kiln
to this new use. There were some difficulties to be encountered; but,
after several fruitless attempts, he succeeded in setting up a glass
manufactory, which Gideon Spilett and Herbert, his usual assistants, did
not leave for several days. As to the substances used in the composition
of glass, they are simply sand, chalk, and soda, either carbonate or
sulphate. Now the beach supplied sand, lime supplied chalk, sea-weeds
supplied soda, pyrites supplied sulphuric acid, and the ground supplied
coal to heat the kiln to the wished-for temperature. Cyrus Harding thus
soon had everything ready for setting to work.

The tool, the manufacture of which presented the most difficulty, was
the pipe of the glass-maker, an iron tube, five or six feet long, which
collects on one end the material in a state of fusion. But by means of
a long, thin piece of iron rolled up like the barrel of a gun, Pencroft
succeeded in making a tube soon ready for use.

On the 28th of March the tube was heated. A hundred parts of sand,
thirty-five of chalk, forty of sulphate of soda, mixed with two or three
parts of powdered coal, composed the substance, which was placed in
crucibles. When the high temperature of the oven had reduced it to a
liquid, or rather a pasty state, Cyrus Harding collected with the tube
a quantity of the paste: he turned it about on a metal plate, previously
arranged, so as to give it a form suitable for blowing, then he passed
the tube to Herbert, telling him to blow at the other extremity.

And Herbert, swelling out his cheeks, blew so much and so well into the
tube-taking care to twirl it round at the same time--that his breath
dilated the glassy mass. Other quantities of the substance in a state
of fusion were added to the first, and in a short time the result was a
bubble which measured a foot in diameter. Harding then took the tube
out of Herbert’s hands, and, giving it a pendulous motion, he ended by
lengthening the malleable bubble so as to give it a cylindroconic shape.

The blowing operation had given a cylinder of glass terminated by two
hemispheric caps, which were easily detached by means of a sharp iron
dipped in cold water; then, by the same proceeding, this cylinder was
cut lengthways, and after having been rendered malleable by a second
heating, it was extended on a plate and spread out with a wooden roller.

The first pane was thus manufactured, and they had only to perform this
operation fifty times to have fifty panes. The windows at Granite House
were soon furnished with panes; not very white, perhaps, but still
sufficiently transparent.

As to bottles and tumblers, that was only play. They were satisfied with
them, besides, just as they came from the end of the tube. Pencroft had
asked to be allowed to “blow” in his turn, and it was great fun for
him; but he blew so hard that his productions took the most ridiculous
shapes, which he admired immensely.

Cyrus Harding and Herbert, while hunting one day, had entered the forest
of the Far West, on the left bank of the Mercy, and, as usual, the
lad was asking a thousand questions of the engineer, who answered them
heartily. Now, as Harding was not a sportsman, and as, on the other
side, Herbert was talking chemistry and natural philosophy, numbers of
kangaroos, capybaras, and agouties came within range, which, however,
escaped the lad’s gun; the consequence was that the day was already
advanced, and the two hunters were in danger of having made a
useless excursion, when Herbert, stopping, and uttering a cry of joy,
exclaimed,--

“Oh, Captain Harding, do you see that tree?” and he pointed to a shrub,
rather than a tree, for it was composed of a single stem, covered with a
scaly bark, which bore leaves streaked with little parallel veins.

“And what is this tree which resembles a little palm?” asked Harding.

“It is a ‘cycas revoluta,’ of which I have a picture in our dictionary
of Natural History!” said Herbert.

“But I can’t see any fruit on this shrub!” observed his companion.

“No, captain,” replied Herbert; “but its stem contains a flour with
which nature has provided us all ready ground.”

“It is, then, the bread-tree?”

“Yes, the bread-tree.”

“Well, my boy,” replied the engineer, “this is a valuable discovery,
since our wheat harvest is not yet ripe; I hope that you are not
mistaken!”

Herbert was not mistaken: he broke the stem of a cycas, which was
composed of a glandulous tissue, containing a quantity of floury pith,
traversed with woody fiber, separated by rings of the same substance,
arranged concentrically. With this fecula was mingled a mucilaginous
juice of disagreeable flavor, but which it would be easy to get rid of
by pressure. This cellular substance was regular flour of a superior
quality, extremely nourishing; its exportation was formerly forbidden by
the Japanese laws.

Cyrus Harding and Herbert, after having examined that part of the Far
West where the cycas grew, took their bearings, and returned to Granite
House, where they made known their discovery.

The next day the settlers went to collect some, and returned to Granite
House with an ample supply of cycas stems. The engineer constructed a
press, with which to extract the mucilaginous juice mingled with the
fecula, and he obtained a large quantity of flour, which Neb soon
transformed into cakes and puddings. This was not quite real wheaten
bread, but it was very like it.

Now, too, the onager, the goats, and the sheep in the corral furnished
daily the milk necessary to the colony. The cart, or rather a sort of
light carriole which had replaced it, made frequent journeys to the
corral, and when it was Pencroft’s turn to go he took Jup, and let him
drive, and Jup, cracking his whip, acquitted himself with his customary
intelligence.

Everything prospered, as well in the corral as in Granite House, and
certainly the settlers, if it had not been that they were so far from
their native land, had no reason to complain. They were so well suited
to this life, and were, besides, so accustomed to the island, that they
could not have left its hospitable soil without regret!

And yet so deeply is the love of his country implanted in the heart of
man, that if a ship had unexpectedly come in sight of the island, the
colonists would have made signals, would have attracted her attention,
and would have departed!

It was the 1st of April, a Sunday, Easter Day, which Harding and his
companions sanctified by rest and prayer. The day was fine, such as an
October day in the Northern Hemisphere might be.

All, towards the evening after dinner, were seated under the veranda
on the edge of Prospect Heights, and they were watching the
darkness creeping up from the horizon. Some cups of the infusion of
elder-berries, which took the place of coffee, had been served by Neb.
They were speaking of the island and of its isolated situation in the
Pacific, which led Gideon Spilett to say,--

“My dear Cyrus, have you ever, since you possessed the sextant found in
the case, again taken the position of our island?”

“No,” replied the engineer.

“But it would perhaps be a good thing to do it with this instrument,
which is more perfect than that which you before used.”

“What is the good?” said Pencroft. “The island is quite comfortable
where it is!”

“Well, who knows,” returned the reporter, “who knows but that we may be
much nearer inhabited land than we think?”

“We shall know to-morrow,” replied Cyrus Harding, “and if it had not
been for the occupations which left me no leisure, we should have known
it already.”

“Good!” said Pencroft. “The captain is too good an observer to be
mistaken, and, if it has not moved from its place, the island is just
where he put it.”

“We shall see.”

On the next day, therefore, by means of the sextant, the engineer made
the necessary observations to verify the position which he had
already obtained, and this was the result of his operation. His first
observation had given him the situation of Lincoln Island,--


In west longitude: from 150deg. to 155deg.;

In south latitude: from 30deg. to 35deg.


The second gave exactly:


In longitude: 150deg. 30’

In south latitude: 34deg. 57’

So then, notwithstanding the imperfection of his apparatus, Cyrus
Harding had operated with so much skill that his error did not exceed
five degrees.

“Now,” said Gideon Spilett, “since we possess an atlas as well as a
sextant, let us see, my dear Cyrus, the exact position which Lincoln
Island occupies in the Pacific.”

Herbert fetched the atlas, and the map of the Pacific was opened, and
the engineer, compass in hand, prepared to determine their position.

Suddenly the compasses stopped, and he exclaimed,

“But an island exists in this part of the Pacific already!”

“An island?” cried Pencroft.

“Tabor Island.”

“An important island?”

“No, an islet lost in the Pacific, and which perhaps has never been
visited.”

“Well, we will visit it,” said Pencroft.

“We?”

“Yes, captain. We will build a decked boat, and I will undertake to
steer her. At what distance are we from this Tabor Island?”

“About a hundred and fifty miles to the northeast,” replied Harding.

“A hundred and fifty miles! And what’s that?” returned Pencroft. “In
forty-eight hours, with a good wind, we should sight it!”

And, on this reply, it was decided that a vessel should be constructed
in time to be launched towards the month of next October, on the return
of the fine season.



Chapter 10

When Pencroft had once got a plan in his head, he had no peace till it
was executed. Now he wished to visit Tabor Island, and as a boat of a
certain size was necessary for this voyage, he determined to build one.

What wood should he employ? Elm or fir, both of which abounded in the
island? They decided for the fir, as being easy to work, but which
stands water as well as the elm.

These details settled, it was agreed that since the fine season would
not return before six months, Cyrus Harding and Pencroft should work
alone at the boat. Gideon Spilett and Herbert were to continue to
hunt, and neither Neb nor Master Jup, his assistant, were to leave the
domestic duties which had devolved upon them.

Directly the trees were chosen, they were felled, stripped of their
branches, and sawn into planks as well as sawyers would have been able
to do it. A week after, in the recess between the Chimneys and the
cliff, a dockyard was prepared, and a keel five-and-thirty feet long,
furnished with a stern-post at the stern and a stem at the bows, lay
along the sand.

Cyrus Harding was not working in the dark at this new trade. He knew as
much about ship-building as about nearly everything else, and he had
at first drawn the model of his ship on paper. Besides, he was ably
seconded by Pencroft, who, having worked for several years in a dockyard
in Brooklyn, knew the practical part of the trade. It was not until
after careful calculation and deep thought that the timbers were laid on
the keel.

Pencroft, as may be believed, was all eagerness to carry out his new
enterprise, and would not leave his work for an instant.

A single thing had the honor of drawing him, but for one day only, from
his dockyard. This was the second wheat-harvest, which was gathered in
on the 15th of April. It was as much a success as the first, and yielded
the number of grains which had been predicted.

“Five bushels, captain,” said Pencroft, after having scrupulously
measured his treasure.

“Five bushels,” replied the engineer; “and a hundred and thirty thousand
grains a bushel will make six hundred and fifty thousand grains.”

“Well, we will sow them all this time,” said the sailor, “except a
little in reserve.”

“Yes, Pencroft, and if the next crop gives a proportionate yield, we
shall have four thousand bushels.”

“And shall we eat bread?”

“We shall eat bread.”

“But we must have a mill.

“We will make one.”

The third corn-field was very much larger than the two first, and the
soil, prepared with extreme care, received the precious seed. That done,
Pencroft returned to his work.

During this time Spilett and Herbert hunted in the neighborhood, and
they ventured deep into the still unknown parts of the Far West, their
guns loaded with ball, ready for any dangerous emergency. It was a vast
thicket of magnificent trees, crowded together as if pressed for room.
The exploration of these dense masses of wood was difficult in
the extreme, and the reporter never ventured there without the
pocket-compass, for the sun scarcely pierced through the thick foliage
and it would have been very difficult for them to retrace their way.
It naturally happened that game was more rare in those situations where
there was hardly sufficient room to move; two or three large herbivorous
animals were however killed during the last fortnight of April. These
were koalas, specimens of which the settlers had already seen to the
north of the lake, and which stupidly allowed themselves to be killed
among the thick branches of the trees in which they took refuge. Their
skins were brought back to Granite House, and there, by the help of
sulphuric acid, they were subjected to a sort of tanning process which
rendered them capable of being used.

On the 30th of April, the two sportsmen were in the depth of the Far
West, when the reporter, preceding Herbert a few paces, arrived in
a sort of clearing, into which the trees more sparsely scattered had
permitted a few rays to penetrate. Gideon Spilett was at first surprised
at the odor which exhaled from certain plants with straight stalks,
round and branchy, bearing grape-like clusters of flowers and very small
berries. The reporter broke off one or two of these stalks and returned
to the lad, to whom he said,--

“What can this be, Herbert?”

“Well, Mr. Spilett,” said Herbert, “this is a treasure which will secure
you Pencroft’s gratitude forever.”

“Is it tobacco?”

“Yes, and though it may not be of the first quality, it is none the less
tobacco!”

“Oh, good old Pencroft! Won’t he be pleased! But we must not let him
smoke it all, he must give us our share.”

“Ah! an idea occurs to me, Mr. Spilett,” replied Herbert. “Don’t let us
say anything to Pencroft yet; we will prepare these leaves, and one fine
day we will present him with a pipe already filled!”

“All right, Herbert, and on that day our worthy companion will have
nothing left to wish for in this world.”

The reporter and the lad secured a good store of the precious plant, and
then returned to Granite House, where they smuggled it in with as much
precaution as if Pencroft had been the most vigilant and severe of
custom-house officers.

Cyrus Harding and Neb were taken into confidence, and the sailor
suspected nothing during the whole time, necessarily somewhat long,
which was required in order to dry the small leaves, chop them up, and
subject them to a certain torrefaction on hot stones. This took two
months; but all these manipulations were successfully carried on unknown
to Pencroft, for, occupied with the construction of his boat, he only
returned to Granite House at the hour of rest.

For some days they had observed an enormous animal two or three miles
out in the open sea swimming around Lincoln Island. This was a whale
of the largest size, which apparently belonged to the southern species,
called the “Cape Whale.”

“What a lucky chance it would be if we could capture it!” cried the
sailor. “Ah! if we only had a proper boat and a good harpoon, I would
say ‘After the beast,’ for he would be well worth the trouble of
catching!”

“Well, Pencroft,” observed Harding, “I should much like to watch you
handling a harpoon. It would be very interesting.”

“I am astonished,” said the reporter, “to see a whale in this
comparatively high latitude.”

“Why so, Mr. Spilett?” replied Herbert. “We are exactly in that part of
the Pacific which English and American whalemen call the whale field,
and it is here, between New Zealand and South America, that the whales
of the Southern Hemisphere are met with in the greatest numbers.”

And Pencroft returned to his work, not without uttering a sigh of
regret, for every sailor is a born fisherman, and if the pleasure of
fishing is in exact proportion to the size of the animal, one can judge
how a whaler feels in sight of a whale. And if this had only been for
pleasure! But they could not help feeling how valuable such a prize
would have been to the colony, for the oil, fat, and bones would have
been put to many uses.

Now it happened that this whale appeared to have no wish to leave the
waters of the island. Therefore, whether from the windows of Granite
House, or from Prospect Heights, Herbert and Gideon Spilett, when they
were not hunting, or Neb, unless presiding over his fires, never left
the telescope, but watched all the animal’s movements. The cetacean,
having entered far into Union Bay, made rapid furrows across it from
Mandible Cape to Claw Cape, propelled by its enormously powerful flukes,
on which it supported itself, and making its way through the water
at the rate little short of twelve knots. Sometimes also it
approached so near to the island that it could be clearly distinguished.
It was the southern whale, which is completely black, the head being
more depressed than that of the northern whale.

They could also see it throwing up from its air-holes to a great
height a cloud of vapor, or of water, for, strange as it may appear,
naturalists and whalers are not agreed on this subject. Is it air or is
it water which is thus driven out? It is generally admitted to be vapor,
which, condensing suddenly by contact with the cold air, falls again as
rain.

However, the presence of this mammifer preoccupied the colonists. It
irritated Pencroft especially, as he could think of nothing else while
at work. He ended by longing for it, like a child for a thing which it
has been denied. At night he talked about it in his sleep, and certainly
if he had had the means of attacking it, if the sloop had been in a fit
state to put to sea, he would not have hesitated to set out in pursuit.

But what the colonists could not do for themselves chance did for them,
and on the 3rd of May shouts from Neb, who had stationed himself at the
kitchen window, announced that the whale was stranded on the beach of
the island.

Herbert and Gideon Spilett, who were just about to set out hunting,
left their guns, Pencroft threw down his ax, and Harding and Neb joining
their companions, all rushed towards the scene of action.

The stranding had taken place on the beach of Flotsam Point, three miles
from Granite House, and at high tide. It was therefore probable that the
cetacean would not be able to extricate itself easily; at any rate it
was best to hasten, so as to cut off its retreat if necessary. They ran
with pick-axes and iron-tipped poles in their hands, passed over the
Mercy bridge, descended the right bank of the river, along the beach,
and in less than twenty minutes the settlers were close to the enormous
animal, above which flocks of birds already hovered.

“What a monster!” cried Neb.

And the exclamation was natural, for it was a southern whale, eighty
feet long, a giant of the species, probably not weighing less than a
hundred and fifty thousand pounds!

In the meanwhile, the monster thus stranded did not move, nor attempt by
struggling to regain the water while the tide was still high.

It was dead, and a harpoon was sticking out of its left side.

“There are whalers in these quarters, then?” said Gideon Spilett
directly.

“Oh, Mr. Spilett, that doesn’t prove anything!” replied Pencroft.
“Whales have been known to go thousands of miles with a harpoon in
the side, and this one might even have been struck in the north of the
Atlantic and come to die in the south of the Pacific, and it would be
nothing astonishing.”

Pencroft, having torn the harpoon from the animal’s side, read this
inscription on it:


           MARIA STELLA, VINEYARD


“A vessel from the Vineyard! A ship from my country!” he cried. “The
‘Maria Stella!’ A fine whaler, ‘pon my word; I know her well! Oh, my
friends, a vessel from the Vineyard!--a whaler from the Vineyard!”

And the sailor brandishing the harpoon, repeated, not without emotion,
the name which he loved so well--the name of his birthplace.

But as it could not be expected that the “Maria Stella” would come to
reclaim the animal harpooned by her, they resolved to begin cutting it
up before decomposition should commence. The birds, who had watched
this rich prey for several days, had determined to take possession of it
without further delay, and it was necessary to drive them off by firing
at them repeatedly.

The whale was a female, and a large quantity of milk was taken from it,
which, according to the opinion of the naturalist Duffenbach, might pass
for cow’s milk, and, indeed, it differs from it neither in taste, color,
nor density.

Pencroft had formerly served on board a whaling-ship, and he could
methodically direct the operation of cutting up, a sufficiently
disagreeable operation lasting three days, but from which the settlers
did not flinch, not even Gideon Spilett, who, as the sailor said, would
end by making a “real good castaway.”

The blubber, cut in parallel slices of two feet and a half in thickness,
then divided into pieces which might weigh about a thousand pounds each,
was melted down in large earthen pots brought to the spot, for they did
not wish to taint the environs of Granite House, and in this fusion it
lost nearly a third of its weight.

But there was an immense quantity of it; the tongue alone yielded six
thousand pounds of oil, and the lower lip four thousand. Then, besides
the fat, which would insure for a long time a store of stearine and
glycerine, there were still the bones, for which a use could doubtless
be found, although there were neither umbrellas nor stays used at
Granite House. The upper part of the mouth of the cetacean was, indeed,
provided on both sides with eight hundred horny blades, very elastic,
of a fibrous texture, and fringed at the edge like great combs, at which
the teeth, six feet long, served to retain the thousands of animalculae,
little fish, and molluscs, on which the whale fed.

The operation finished, to the great satisfaction of the operators, the
remains of the animal were left to the birds, who would soon make every
vestige of it disappear, and their usual daily occupations were resumed
by the inmates of Granite House.

However, before returning to the dockyard, Cyrus Harding conceived
the idea of fabricating certain machines, which greatly excited the
curiosity of his companions. He took a dozen of the whale’s bones, cut
them into six equal parts, and sharpened their ends.

“This machine is not my own invention, and it is frequently employed
by the Aleutian hunters in Russian America. You see these bones, my
friends; well, when it freezes, I will bend them, and then wet them
with water till they are entirely covered with ice, which will keep them
bent, and I will strew them on the snow, having previously covered them
with fat. Now, what will happen if a hungry animal swallows one of these
baits? Why, the heat of his stomach will melt the ice, and the bone,
springing straight, will pierce him with its sharp points.”

“Well! I do call that ingenious!” said Pencroft.

“And it will spare the powder and shot,” rejoined Cyrus Harding.

“That will be better than traps!” added Neb.

In the meanwhile the boat-building progressed, and towards the end of
the month half the planking was completed. It could already be seen that
her shape was excellent, and that she would sail well.

Pencroft worked with unparalleled ardor, and only a sturdy frame could
have borne such fatigue; but his companions were preparing in secret a
reward for his labors, and on the 31st of May he was to meet with one of
the greatest joys of his life.

On that day, after dinner, just as he was about to leave the table,
Pencroft felt a hand on his shoulder.

It was the hand of Gideon Spilett, who said,--

“One moment, Master Pencroft, you mustn’t sneak off like that! You’ve
forgotten your dessert.”

“Thank you, Mr. Spilett,” replied the sailor, “I am going back to my
work.”

“Well, a cup of coffee, my friend?”

“Nothing more.”

“A pipe, then?”

Pencroft jumped up, and his great good-natured face grew pale when he
saw the reporter presenting him with a ready-filled pipe, and Herbert
with a glowing coal.

The sailor endeavored to speak, but could not get out a word; so,
seizing the pipe, he carried it to his lips, then applying the coal,
he drew five or six great whiffs. A fragrant blue cloud soon arose, and
from its depths a voice was heard repeating excitedly,--

“Tobacco! real tobacco!”

“Yes, Pencroft,” returned Cyrus Harding, “and very good tobacco too!”

“O, divine Providence; sacred Author of all things!” cried the sailor.
“Nothing more is now wanting to our island.”

And Pencroft smoked, and smoked, and smoked.

“And who made this discovery?” he asked at length. “You, Herbert, no
doubt?”

“No, Pencroft, it was Mr. Spilett.”

“Mr. Spilett!” exclaimed the sailor, seizing the reporter, and clasping
him to his breast with such a squeeze that he had never felt anything
like it before.

“Oh Pencroft,” said Spilett, recovering his breath at last, “a truce for
one moment. You must share your gratitude with Herbert, who recognized
the plant, with Cyrus, who prepared it, and with Neb, who took a great
deal of trouble to keep our secret.”

“Well, my friends, I will repay you some day,” replied the sailor. “Now
we are friends for life.”



Chapter 11

Winter arrived with the month of June, which is the December of the
northern zones, and the great business was the making of warm and solid
clothing.

The musmons in the corral had been stripped of their wool, and this
precious textile material was now to be transformed into stuff.

Of course Cyrus Harding, having at his disposal neither carders,
combers, polishers, stretchers, twisters, mule-jenny, nor self-acting
machine to spin the wool, nor loom to weave it, was obliged to proceed
in a simpler way, so as to do without spinning and weaving. And indeed
he proposed to make use of the property which the filaments of wool
possess when subjected to a powerful pressure of mixing together, and of
manufacturing by this simple process the material called felt. This felt
could then be obtained by a simple operation which, if it diminished
the flexibility of the stuff, increased its power of retaining heat in
proportion. Now the wool furnished by the musmons was composed of very
short hairs, and was in a good condition to be felted.

The engineer, aided by his companions, including Pencroft, who was once
more obliged to leave his boat, commenced the preliminary operations,
the subject of which was to rid the wool of that fat and oily substance
with which it is impregnated, and which is called grease. This cleaning
was done in vats filled with water, which was maintained at the
temperature of seventy degrees, and in which the wool was soaked for
four-and-twenty hours; it was then thoroughly washed in baths of soda,
and, when sufficiently dried by pressure, it was in a state to be
compressed, that is to say, to produce a solid material, rough, no
doubt, and such as would have no value in a manufacturing center of
Europe or America, but which would be highly esteemed in the Lincoln
Island markets.

This sort of material must have been known from the most ancient times,
and, in fact, the first woolen stuffs were manufactured by the process
which Harding was now about to employ. Where Harding’s engineering
qualifications now came into play was in the construction of the machine
for pressing the wool; for he knew how to turn ingeniously to profit
the mechanical force, hitherto unused, which the waterfall on the beach
possessed to move a fulling-mill.

Nothing could be more rudimentary. The wool was placed in troughs, and
upon it fell in turns heavy wooden mallets; such was the machine in
question, and such it had been for centuries until the time when the
mallets were replaced by cylinders of compression, and the material was
no longer subjected to beating, but to regular rolling.

The operation, ably directed by Cyrus Harding, was a complete success.
The wool, previously impregnated with a solution of soap, intended on
the one hand to facilitate the interlacing, the compression, and the
softening of the wool, and on the other to prevent its diminution by
the beating, issued from the mill in the shape of thick felt cloth. The
roughnesses with which the staple of wool is naturally filled were so
thoroughly entangled and interlaced together that a material was formed
equally suitable either for garments or bedclothes. It was certainly
neither merino, muslin, cashmere, rep, satin, alpaca, cloth, nor
flannel. It was “Lincolnian felt,” and Lincoln Island possessed yet
another manufacture. The colonists had now warm garments and thick
bedclothes, and they could without fear await the approach of the winter
of 1866-67.

The severe cold began to be felt about the 20th of June, and, to his
great regret, Pencroft was obliged to suspend his boat-building, which
he hoped to finish in time for next spring.

The sailor’s great idea was to make a voyage of discovery to Tabor
Island, although Harding could not approve of a voyage simply for
curiosity’s sake, for there was evidently nothing to be found on this
desert and almost arid rock. A voyage of a hundred and fifty miles in a
comparatively small vessel, over unknown seas, could not but cause him
some anxiety. Suppose that their vessel, once out at sea, should be
unable to reach Tabor Island, and could not return to Lincoln Island,
what would become of her in the midst of the Pacific, so fruitful of
disasters?

Harding often talked over this project with Pencroft, and he found him
strangely bent upon undertaking this voyage, for which determination he
himself could give no sufficient reason.

“Now,” said the engineer one day to him, “I must observe, my friend,
that after having said so much, in praise of Lincoln Island, after
having spoken so often of the sorrow you would feel if you were obliged
to forsake it, you are the first to wish to leave it.”

“Only to leave it for a few days,” replied Pencroft, “only for a few
days, captain. Time to go and come back, and see what that islet is
like!”

“But it is not nearly as good as Lincoln Island.”

“I know that beforehand.”

“Then why venture there?”

“To know what is going on in Tabor Island.”

“But nothing is going on there; nothing could happen there.”

“Who knows?”

“And if you are caught in a hurricane?”

“There is no fear of that in the fine season,” replied Pencroft.
“But, captain, as we must provide against everything, I shall ask your
permission to take Herbert only with me on this voyage.”

“Pencroft,” replied the engineer, placing his hand on the sailor’s
shoulder, “if any misfortune happens to you, or to this lad, whom
chance has made our child, do you think we could ever cease to blame
ourselves?”

“Captain Harding,” replied Pencroft, with unshaken confidence, “we
shall not cause you that sorrow. Besides, we will speak further of this
voyage, when the time comes to make it. And I fancy, when you have seen
our tight-rigged little craft, when you have observed how she behaves at
sea, when we sail round our island, for we will do so together--I fancy,
I say, that you will no longer hesitate to let me go. I don’t conceal
from you that your boat will be a masterpiece.”

“Say ‘our’ boat, at least, Pencroft,” replied the engineer, disarmed for
the moment. The conversation ended thus, to be resumed later on, without
convincing either the sailor or the engineer.

The first snow fell towards the end of the month of June. The corral had
previously been largely supplied with stores, so that daily visits to
it were not requisite; but it was decided that more than a week should
never be allowed to pass without someone going to it.

Traps were again set, and the machines manufactured by Harding were
tried. The bent whalebones, imprisoned in a case of ice, and covered
with a thick outer layer of fat, were placed on the border of the forest
at a spot where animals usually passed on their way to the lake.

To the engineer’s great satisfaction, this invention, copied from the
Aleutian fishermen, succeeded perfectly. A dozen foxes, a few wild
boars, and even a jaguar, were taken in this way, the animals being
found dead, their stomachs pierced by the unbent bones.

An incident must here be related, not only as interesting in itself, but
because it was the first attempt made by the colonists to communicate
with the rest of mankind.

Gideon Spilett had already several times pondered whether to throw into
the sea a letter enclosed in a bottle, which currents might perhaps
carry to an inhabited coast, or to confide it to pigeons.

But how could it be seriously hoped that either pigeons or bottles could
cross the distance of twelve hundred miles which separated the island
from any inhabited land? It would have been pure folly.

But on the 30th of June the capture was effected, not without
difficulty, of an albatross, which a shot from Herbert’s gun had
slightly wounded in the foot. It was a magnificent bird, measuring ten
feet from wing to wing, and which could traverse seas as wide as the
Pacific.

Herbert would have liked to keep this superb bird, as its wound would
soon heal, and he thought he could tame it; but Spilett explained to
him that they should not neglect this opportunity of attempting to
communicate by this messenger with the lands of the Pacific; for if the
albatross had come from some inhabited region, there was no doubt but
that it would return there so soon as it was set free.

Perhaps in his heart Gideon Spilett, in whom the journalist sometimes
came to the surface, was not sorry to have the opportunity of sending
forth to take its chance an exciting article relating the adventures
of the settlers in Lincoln Island. What a success for the authorized
reporter of the New York Herald, and for the number which should contain
the article, if it should ever reach the address of its editor, the
Honorable James Bennett!

Gideon Spilett then wrote out a concise account, which was placed in a
strong waterproof bag, with an earnest request to whoever might find it
to forward it to the office of the New York Herald. This little bag was
fastened to the neck of the albatross, and not to its foot, for these
birds are in the habit of resting on the surface of the sea; then
liberty was given to this swift courier of the air, and it was not
without some emotion that the colonists watched it disappear in the
misty west.

“Where is he going to?” asked Pencroft.

“Towards New Zealand,” replied Herbert.

“A good voyage to you,” shouted the sailor, who himself did not expect
any great result from this mode of correspondence.

With the winter, work had been resumed in the interior of Granite House,
mending clothes and different occupations, among others making the sails
for their vessel, which were cut from the inexhaustible balloon-case.

During the month of July the cold was intense, but there was no lack of
either wood or coal. Cyrus Harding had established a second fireplace in
the dining-room, and there the long winter evenings were spent. Talking
while they worked, reading when the hands remained idle, the time passed
with profit to all.

It was real enjoyment to the settlers when in their room, well lighted
with candles, well warmed with coal, after a good dinner, elderberry
coffee smoking in the cups, the pipes giving forth an odoriferous smoke,
they could hear the storm howling without. Their comfort would have been
complete, if complete comfort could ever exist for those who are far
from their fellow-creatures, and without any means of communication with
them. They often talked of their country, of the friends whom they had
left, of the grandeur of the American Republic, whose influence could
not but increase; and Cyrus Harding, who had been much mixed up with the
affairs of the Union, greatly interested his auditors by his recitals,
his views, and his prognostics.

It chanced one day that Spilett was led to say--

“But now, my dear Cyrus, all this industrial and commercial movement
to which you predict a continual advance, does it not run the danger of
being sooner or later completely stopped?”

“Stopped! And by what?”

“By the want of coal, which may justly be called the most precious of
minerals.”

“Yes, the most precious indeed,” replied the engineer; “and it would
seem that nature wished to prove that it was so by making the diamond,
which is simply pure carbon crystallized.”

“You don’t mean to say, captain,” interrupted Pencroft, “that we burn
diamonds in our stoves in the shape of coal?”

“No, my friend,” replied Harding.

“However,” resumed Gideon Spilett, “you do not deny that some day the
coal will be entirely consumed?”

“Oh! the veins of coal are still considerable, and the hundred
thousand miners who annually extract from them a hundred millions of
hundredweights have not nearly exhausted them.”

“With the increasing consumption of coal,” replied Gideon Spilett, “it
can be foreseen that the hundred thousand workmen will soon become two
hundred thousand, and that the rate of extraction will be doubled.”

“Doubtless; but after the European mines, which will be soon worked more
thoroughly with new machines, the American and Australian mines will for
a long time yet provide for the consumption in trade.”

“For how long a time?” asked the reporter.

“For at least two hundred and fifty or three hundred years.”

“That is reassuring for us, but a bad look-out for our
great-grandchildren!” observed Pencroft.

“They will discover something else,” said Herbert.

“It is to be hoped so,” answered Spilett, “for without coal there would
be no machinery, and without machinery there would be no railways, no
steamers, no manufactories, nothing of that which is indispensable to
modern civilization!”

“But what will they find?” asked Pencroft. “Can you guess, captain?”

“Nearly, my friend.”

“And what will they burn instead of coal?”

“Water,” replied Harding.

“Water!” cried Pencroft, “water as fuel for steamers and engines! water
to heat water!”

“Yes, but water decomposed into its primitive elements,” replied Cyrus
Harding, “and decomposed doubtless, by electricity, which will then have
become a powerful and manageable force, for all great discoveries, by
some inexplicable laws, appear to agree and become complete at the same
time. Yes, my friends, I believe that water will one day be employed
as fuel, that hydrogen and oxygen which constitute it, used singly or
together, will furnish an inexhaustible source of heat and light, of
an intensity of which coal is not capable. Some day the coalrooms of
steamers and the tenders of locomotives will, instead of coal, be stored
with these two condensed gases, which will burn in the furnaces with
enormous calorific power. There is, therefore, nothing to fear. As long
as the earth is inhabited it will supply the wants of its inhabitants,
and there will be no want of either light or heat as long as the
productions of the vegetable, mineral or animal kingdoms do not fail us.
I believe, then, that when the deposits of coal are exhausted we shall
heat and warm ourselves with water. Water will be the coal of the
future.”

“I should like to see that,” observed the sailor.

“You were born too soon, Pencroft,” returned Neb, who only took part in
the discussion by these words.

However, it was not Neb’s speech which interrupted the conversation, but
Top’s barking, which broke out again with that strange intonation which
had before perplexed the engineer. At the same time Top began to run
round the mouth of the well, which opened at the extremity of the
interior passage.

“What can Top be barking in that way for?” asked Pencroft.

“And Jup be growling like that?” added Herbert.

In fact the orang, joining the dog, gave unequivocal signs of agitation,
and, singular to say, the two animals appeared more uneasy than angry.

“It is evident,” said Gideon Spilett, “that this well is in direct
communication with the sea, and that some marine animal comes from time
to time to breathe at the bottom.”

“That’s evident,” replied the sailor, “and there can be no other
explanation to give. Quiet there, Top!” added Pencroft, turning to the
dog, “and you, Jup, be off to your room!”

The ape and the dog were silent. Jup went off to bed, but Top remained
in the room, and continued to utter low growls at intervals during the
rest of the evening. There was no further talk on the subject, but the
incident, however, clouded the brow of the engineer.

During the remainder of the month of July there was alternate rain and
frost. The temperature was not so low as during the preceding winter,
and its maximum did not exceed eight degrees Fahrenheit. But although
this winter was less cold, it was more troubled by storms and squalls;
the sea besides often endangered the safety of the Chimneys. At times
it almost seemed as if an under-current raised these monstrous billows
which thundered against the wall of Granite House.

When the settlers, leaning from their windows, gazed on the huge watery
masses breaking beneath their eyes, they could not but admire the
magnificent spectacle of the ocean in its impotent fury. The waves
rebounded in dazzling foam, the beach entirely disapppearing under the
raging flood, and the cliff appearing to emerge from the sea itself, the
spray rising to a height of more than a hundred feet.

During these storms it was difficult and even dangerous to venture out,
owing to the frequently falling trees; however, the colonists never
allowed a week to pass without having paid a visit to the corral.
Happily, this enclosure, sheltered by the southeastern spur of Mount
Franklin, did not greatly suffer from the violence of the hurricanes,
which spared its trees, sheds, and palisades; but the poultry-yard on
Prospect Heights, being directly exposed to the gusts of wind from the
east, suffered considerable damage. The pigeon-house was twice unroofed
and the paling blown down. All this required to be remade more solidly
than before, for, as may be clearly seen, Lincoln Island was situated in
one of the most dangerous parts of the Pacific. It really appeared as if
it formed the central point of vast cyclones, which beat it perpetually
as the whip does the top, only here it was the top which was motionless
and the whip which moved. During the first week of the month of August
the weather became more moderate, and the atmosphere recovered the calm
which it appeared to have lost forever. With the calm the cold again
became intense, and the thermometer fell to eight degrees Fahrenheit,
below zero.

On the 3rd of August an excursion which had been talked of for several
days was made into the southeastern part of the island, towards Tadorn
Marsh. The hunters were tempted by the aquatic game which took up their
winter quarters there. Wild duck, snipe, teal and grebe abounded there,
and it was agreed that a day should be devoted to an expedition against
these birds.

Not only Gideon Spilett and Herbert, but Pencroft and Neb also took part
in this excursion. Cyrus Harding alone, alleging some work as an excuse,
did not join them, but remained at Granite House.

The hunters proceeded in the direction of Port Balloon, in order to
reach the marsh, after having promised to be back by the evening. Top
and Jup accompanied them. As soon as they had passed over the Mercy
Bridge, the engineer raised it and returned, intending to put into
execution a project for the performance of which he wished to be alone.

Now this project was to minutely explore the interior well, the mouth
of which was on a level with the passage of Granite House, and which
communicated with the sea, since it formerly supplied a way to the
waters of the lake.

Why did Top so often run round this opening? Why did he utter such
strange barks when a sort of uneasiness seemed to draw him towards this
well? Why did Jup join Top in a sort of common anxiety? Had this well
branches besides the communication with the sea? Did it spread towards
other parts of the island? This is what Cyrus Harding wished to know. He
had resolved, therefore, to attempt the exploration of the well during
the absence of his companions, and an opportunity for doing so had now
presented itself.

It was easy to descend to the bottom of the well by employing the rope
ladder which had not been used since the establishment of the lift. The
engineer drew the ladder to the hole, the diameter of which measured
nearly six feet, and allowed it to unroll itself after having securely
fastened its upper extremity. Then, having lighted a lantern, taken a
revolver, and placed a cutlass in his belt, he began the descent.

The sides were everywhere entire; but points of rock jutted out here and
there, and by means of these points it would have been quite possible
for an active creature to climb to the mouth of the well.

The engineer remarked this; but although he carefully examined these
points by the light of his lantern, he could find no impression, no
fracture which could give any reason to suppose that they had either
recently or at any former time been used as a staircase. Cyrus Harding
descended deeper, throwing the light of his lantern on all sides.

He saw nothing suspicious.

When the engineer had reached the last rounds he came upon the water,
which was then perfectly calm. Neither at its level nor in any other
part of the well, did any passage open, which could lead to the interior
of the cliff. The wall which Harding struck with the hilt of his cutlass
sounded solid. It was compact granite, through which no living being
could force a way. To arrive at the bottom of the well and then climb
up to its mouth it was necessary to pass through the channel under the
rocky subsoil of the beach, which placed it in communication with the
sea, and this was only possible for marine animals. As to the question
of knowing where this channel ended, at what point of the shore, and at
what depth beneath the water, it could not be answered.

Then Cyrus Harding, having ended his survey, re-ascended, drew up the
ladder, covered the mouth of the well, and returned thoughtfully to the
diningroom, saying to himself,--

“I have seen nothing, and yet there is something there!”



Chapter 12

In the evening the hunters returned, having enjoyed good sport, and
being literally loaded with game; indeed, they had as much as four men
could possibly carry. Top wore a necklace of teal and Jup wreaths of
snipe round his body.

“Here, master,” cried Neb; “here’s something to employ our time!
Preserved and made into pies we shall have a welcome store! But I must
have some one to help me. I count on you, Pencroft.”

“No, Neb,” replied the sailor; “I have the rigging of the vessel to
finish and to look after, and you will have to do without me.”

“And you, Mr. Herbert?”

“I must go to the corral to-morrow, Neb,” replied the lad.

“It will be you then, Mr. Spilett, who will help me?”

“To oblige you, Neb, I will,” replied the reporter; “but I warn you that
if you disclose your recipes to me, I shall publish them.”

“Whenever you like, Mr. Spilett,” replied Neb; “whenever you like.”

And so the next day Gideon Spilett became Neb’s assistant and was
installed in his culinary laboratory. The engineer had previously made
known to him the result of the exploration which he had made the day
before, and on this point the reporter shared Harding’s opinion, that
although he had found nothing, a secret still remained to be discovered!

The frost continued for another week, and the settlers did not leave
Granite House unless to look after the poultry-yard. The dwelling
was filled with appetizing odors, which were emitted from the learned
manipulation of Neb and the reporter. But all the results of the chase
were not made into preserved provisions; and as the game kept perfectly
in the intense cold, wild duck and other fowl were eaten fresh, and
declared superior to all other aquatic birds in the known world.

During this week, Pencroft, aided by Herbert, who handled the
sailmaker’s needle with much skill, worked with such energy that the
sails of the vessel were finished. There was no want of cordage. Thanks
to the rigging which had been discovered with the case of the balloon,
the ropes and cables from the net were all of good quality, and the
sailor turned them all to account. To the sails were attached strong
bolt ropes, and there still remained enough from which to make the
halyards, shrouds, and sheets, etc. The blocks were manufactured by
Cyrus Harding under Pencroft’s directions by means of the turning lathe.
It therefore happened that the rigging was entirely prepared before the
vessel was finished. Pencroft also manufactured a flag, that flag so
dear to every true American, containing the stars and stripes of their
glorious Union. The colors for it were supplied from certain plants
used in dyeing, and which were very abundant in the island; only to the
thirty-seven stars, representing the thirty-seven States of the Union,
which shine on the American flag, the sailor added a thirty-eighth, the
star of “the State of Lincoln,” for he considered his island as already
united to the great republic. “And,” said he, “it is so already in
heart, if not in deed!”

In the meantime, the flag was hoisted at the central window of Granite
House, and the settlers saluted it with three cheers.

The cold season was now almost at an end, and it appeared as if this
second winter was to pass without any unusual occurrence, when on the
night of the 11th of August, the plateau of Prospect Heights was menaced
with complete destruction.

After a busy day the colonists were sleeping soundly, when towards four
o’clock in the morning they were suddenly awakened by Top’s barking.

The dog was not this time barking near the mouth of the well, but at
the threshold of the door, at which he was scratching as if he wished to
burst it open. Jup was also uttering piercing cries.

“Hello, Top!” cried Neb, who was the first awake. But the dog continued
to bark more furiously than ever.

“What’s the matter now?” asked Harding.

And all dressing in haste rushed to the windows, which they opened.

Beneath their eyes was spread a sheet of snow which looked gray in the
dim light. The settlers could see nothing, but they heard a singular
yelping noise away in the darkness. It was evident that the beach had
been invaded by a number of animals which could not be seen.

“What are they?” cried Pencroft.

“Wolves, jaguars, or apes?” replied Neb.

“They have nearly reached the plateau,” said the reporter.

“And our poultry-yard,” exclaimed Herbert, “and our garden!”

“Where can they have crossed?” asked Pencroft.

“They must have crossed the bridge on the shore,” replied the engineer,
“which one of us must have forgotten to close.”

“True,” said Spilett, “I remember having left it open.”

“A fine job you have made of it, Mr. Spilett,” cried the sailor.

“What is done cannot be undone,” replied Cyrus Harding. “We must consult
what it will now be best to do.”

Such were the questions and answers which were rapidly exchanged between
Harding and his companions. It was certain that the bridge had been
crossed, that the shore had been invaded by animals, and that whatever
they might be they could by ascending the left bank of the Mercy reach
Prospect Heights. They must therefore be advanced against quickly and
fought with if necessary.

“But what are these beasts?” was asked a second time, as the yelpings
were again heard more loudly than before. These yelps made Herbert
start, and he remembered having heard them before during his first visit
to the sources of the Red Creek.

“They are colpeo foxes!” he exclaimed.

“Forward!” shouted the sailor.

And all arming themselves with hatchets, carbines, and revolvers, threw
themselves into the lift and soon set foot on the shore.

Colpeos are dangerous animals when in great numbers and irritated by
hunger, nevertheless the colonists did not hesitate to throw themselves
into the midst of the troop, and their first shots vividly lighting up
the darkness made their assailants draw back.

The chief thing was to hinder these plunderers from reaching the
plateau, for the garden and the poultry-yard would then have been at
their mercy, and immense, perhaps irreparable mischief, would inevitably
be the result, especially with regard to the corn-field. But as the
invasion of the plateau could only be made by the left bank of the
Mercy, it was sufficient to oppose the colpeos on the narrow bank
between the river and the cliff of granite.

This was plain to all, and, by Cyrus Harding’s orders, they reached the
spot indicated by him, while the colpeos rushed fiercely through
the gloom. Harding, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, Pencroft and Neb posted
themselves in impregnable line. Top, his formidable jaws open, preceded
the colonists, and he was followed by Jup, armed with a knotty cudgel,
which he brandished like a club.

The night was extremely dark, it was only by the flashes from the
revolvers as each person fired that they could see their assailants, who
were at least a hundred in number, and whose eyes were glowing like hot
coals.

“They must not pass!” shouted Pencroft.

“They shall not pass!” returned the engineer.

But if they did not pass it was not for want of having attempted it.
Those in the rear pushed on the foremost assailants, and it was an
incessant struggle with revolvers and hatchets. Several colpeos already
lay dead on the ground, but their number did not appear to diminish,
and it might have been supposed that reinforcements were continually
arriving over the bridge.

The colonists were soon obliged to fight at close quarters, not without
receiving some wounds, though happily very slight ones. Herbert had,
with a shot from his revolver, rescued Neb, on whose back a colpeo had
sprung like a tiger cat. Top fought with actual fury, flying at the
throats of the foxes and strangling them instantaneously. Jup wielded
his weapon valiantly, and it was in vain that they endeavored to keep
him in the rear. Endowed doubtless with sight which enabled him to
pierce the obscurity, he was always in the thick of the fight uttering
from time to time--a sharp hissing sound, which was with him the sign of
great rejoicing.

At one moment he advanced so far, that by the light from a revolver
he was seen surrounded by five or six large colpeos, with whom he was
coping with great coolness.

However, the struggle was ended at last, and victory was on the side
of the settlers, but not until they had fought for two long hours! The
first signs of the approach of day doubtless determined the retreat of
their assailants, who scampered away towards the North, passing over the
bridge, which Neb ran immediately to raise. When day had sufficiently
lighted up the field of battle, the settlers counted as many as fifty
dead bodies scattered about on the shore.

“And Jup!” cried Pencroft; “where is Jup?” Jup had disappeared. His
friend Neb called him, and for the first time Jup did not reply to his
friend’s call.

Everyone set out in search of Jup, trembling lest he should be found
among the slain; they cleared the place of the bodies which stained the
snow with their blood. Jup was found in the midst of a heap of colpeos
whose broken jaws and crushed bodies showed that they had to do with the
terrible club of the intrepid animal.

Poor Jup still held in his hand the stump of his broken cudgel, but
deprived of his weapon he had been overpowered by numbers, and his chest
was covered with severe wounds.

“He is living,” cried Neb, who was bending over him.

“And we will save him,” replied the sailor. “We will nurse him as if he
was one of ourselves.”

It appeared as if Jup understood, for he leaned his head on Pencroft’s
shoulder as if to thank him. The sailor was wounded himself, but his
wound was insignificant, as were those of his companions; for thanks to
their firearms they had been almost always able to keep their assailants
at a distance. It was therefore only the orang whose condition was
serious.

Jup, carried by Neb and Pencroft, was placed in the lift, and only a
slight moan now and then escaped his lips. He was gently drawn up to
Granite House. There he was laid on a mattress taken from one of the
beds, and his wounds were bathed with the greatest care. It did not
appear that any vital part had been reached, but Jup was very weak from
loss of blood, and a high fever soon set in after his wounds had been
dressed. He was laid down, strict diet was imposed, “just like a real
person,” as Neb said, and they made him swallow several cups of
a cooling drink, for which the ingredients were supplied from the
vegetable medicine chest of Granite House. Jup was at first restless,
but his breathing gradually became more regular, and he was left
sleeping quietly. From time to time Top, walking on tip-toe, as one
might say, came to visit his friend, and seemed to approve of all the
care that had been taken of him. One of Jup’s hands hung over the side
of his bed, and Top licked it with a sympathizing air.

They employed the day in interring the dead, who were dragged to the
forest of the Far West, and there buried deep.

This attack, which might have had such serious consequences, was a
lesson to the settlers, who from this time never went to bed until one
of their number had made sure that all the bridges were raised, and that
no invasion was possible.

However, Jup, after having given them serious anxiety for several
days, began to recover. His constitution brought him through, the fever
gradually subsided, and Gideon Spilett, who was a bit of a doctor,
pronounced him quite out of danger. On the 16th of August, Jup began to
eat. Neb made him nice little sweet dishes, which the invalid devoured
with great relish, for if he had a pet failing it was that of being
somewhat of a gourmand, and Neb had never done anything to cure him of
this fault.

“What would you have?” said he to Gideon Spilett, who sometimes
expostulated with him for spoiling the ape. “Poor Jup has no other
pleasure than that of the palate, and I am only too glad to be able to
reward his services in this way!”

Ten days after taking to his bed, on the 21st of August, Master Jup
arose. His wounds were healed, and it was evident that he would not
be long in regaining his usual strength and agility. Like all
convalescents, he was tremendously hungry, and the reporter allowed him
to eat as much as he liked, for he trusted to that instinct, which
is too often wanting in reasoning beings, to keep the orang from any
excess. Neb was delighted to see his pupil’s appetite returning.

“Eat away, my Jup,” said he, “and don’t spare anything; you have shed
your blood for us, and it is the least I can do to make you strong
again!”

On the 25th of August Neb’s voice was heard calling to his companions.

“Captain, Mr. Spilett, Mr. Herbert, Pencroft, come! come!”

The colonists, who were together in the dining-room, rose at Neb’s call,
who was then in Jup’s room.

“What’s the matter?” asked the reporter.

“Look,” replied Neb, with a shout of laughter. And what did they see?
Master Jup smoking calmly and seriously, sitting crosslegged like a Turk
at the entrance to Granite House!

“My pipe,” cried Pencroft. “He has taken my pipe! Hello, my honest Jup,
I make you a present of it! Smoke away, old boy, smoke away!”

And Jup gravely puffed out clouds of smoke which seemed to give him
great satisfaction. Harding did not appear to be much astonished at this
incident, and he cited several examples of tame apes, to whom the use of
tobacco had become quite familiar.

But from this day Master Jup had a pipe of his own, the sailor’s
ex-pipe, which was hung in his room near his store of tobacco. He filled
it himself, lighted it with a glowing coal, and appeared to be
the happiest of quadrumana. It may readily be understood that this
similarity of tastes of Jup and Pencroft served to tighten the bonds of
friendship which already existed between the honest ape and the worthy
sailor.

“Perhaps he is really a man,” said Pencroft sometimes to Neb. “Should
you be surprised to hear him beginning to speak to us some day?”

“My word, no,” replied Neb. “What astonishes me is that he hasn’t spoken
to us before, for now he wants nothing but speech!”

“It would amuse me all the same,” resumed the sailor, “if some fine day
he said to me, ‘Suppose we change pipes, Pencroft.’”

“Yes,” replied Neb, “what a pity he was born dumb!”

With the month of September the winter ended, and the works were again
eagerly commenced. The building of the vessel advanced rapidly, she was
already completely decked over, and all the inside parts of the hull
were firmly united with ribs bent by means of steam, which answered all
the purposes of a mold.

As there was no want of wood, Pencroft proposed to the engineer to give
a double lining to the hull, to insure the strength of the vessel.

Harding, not knowing what the future might have in store for them,
approved the sailor’s idea of making the craft as strong as possible.
The interior and deck of the vessel was entirely finished towards the
15th of September. For calking the seams they made oakum of dry seaweed,
which was hammered in between the planks; then these seams were covered
with boiling tar, which was obtained in great abundance from the pines
in the forest.

The management of the vessel was very simple. She had from the first
been ballasted with heavy blocks of granite walled up, in a bed of lime,
twelve thousand pounds of which they stowed away.

A deck was placed over this ballast, and the interior was divided into
two cabins; two benches extended along them and served also as lockers.
The foot of the mast supported the partition which separated the two
cabins, which were reached by two hatchways let into the deck.

Pencroft had no trouble in finding a tree suitable for the mast. He
chose a straight young fir, with no knots, and which he had only to
square at the step, and round off at the top. The ironwork of the mast,
the rudder and the hull had been roughly but strongly forged at the
Chimneys. Lastly, yards, masts, boom, spars, oars, etc., were all
furnished by the first week in October, and it was agreed that a trial
trip should be taken round the island, so as to ascertain how the vessel
would behave at sea, and how far they might depend upon her.

During all this time the necessary works had not been neglected.
The corral was enlarged, for the flock of musmons and goats had been
increased by a number of young ones, who had to be housed and fed. The
colonists had paid visits also to the oyster bed, the warren, the coal
and iron mines, and to the till then unexplored districts of the Far
West forest, which abounded in game. Certain indigenous plants were
discovered, and those fit for immediate use contributed to vary the
vegetable stores of Granite House.

They were a species of ficoide, some similar to those of the Cape, with
eatable fleshy leaves, others bearing seeds containing a sort of flour.

On the 10th of October the vessel was launched. Pencroft was radiant
with joy, the operation was perfectly successful; the boat completely
rigged, having been pushed on rollers to the water’s edge, was floated
by the rising tide, amid the cheers of the colonists, particularly of
Pencroft, who showed no modesty on this occasion. Besides his importance
was to last beyond the finishing of the vessel, since, after having
built her, he was to command her. The grade of captain was bestowed upon
him with the approbation of all. To satisfy Captain Pencroft, it was now
necessary to give a name to the vessel, and, after many propositions had
been discussed, the votes were all in favor of the “Bonadventure.” As
soon as the “Bonadventure” had been lifted by the rising tide, it was
seen that she lay evenly in the water, and would be easily navigated.
However, the trial trip was to be made that very day, by an excursion
off the coast. The weather was fine, the breeze fresh, and the sea
smooth, especially towards the south coast, for the wind was blowing
from the northwest.

“All hands on board,” shouted Pencroft; but breakfast was first
necessary, and it was thought best to take provisions on board, in the
event of their excursion being prolonged until the evening.

Cyrus Harding was equally anxious to try the vessel, the model of which
had originated with him, although on the sailor’s advice he had altered
some parts of it, but he did not share Pencroft’s confidence in her,
and as the latter had not again spoken of the voyage to Tabor Island,
Harding hoped he had given it up. He would have indeed great reluctance
in letting two or three of his companions venture so far in so small a
boat, which was not of more than fifteen tons’ burden.

At half-past ten everybody was on board, even Top and Jup, and Herbert
weighed the anchor, which was fast in the sand near the mouth of the
Mercy. The sail was hoisted, the Lincolnian flag floated from the
masthead, and the “Bonadventure,” steered by Pencroft, stood out to sea.

The wind blowing out of Union Bay she ran before it, and thus showed her
owners, much to their satisfaction, that she possessed a remarkably fast
pair of heels, according to Pencroft’s mode of speaking. After having
doubled Flotsam Point and Claw Cape, the captain kept her close hauled,
so as to sail along the southern coast of the island, when it was found
she sailed admirably within five points of the wind. All hands were
enchanted, they had a good vessel, which, in case of need, would be
of great service to them, and with fine weather and a fresh breeze the
voyage promised to be charming.

Pencroft now stood off the shore, three or four miles across from Port
Balloon. The island then appeared in all its extent and under a new
aspect, with the varied panorama of its shore from Claw Cape to Reptile
End, the forests in which dark firs contrasted with the young foliage
of other trees and overlooked the whole, and Mount Franklin whose lofty
head was still whitened with snow.

“How beautiful it is!” cried Herbert.

“Yes, our island is beautiful and good,” replied Pencroft. “I love it as
I loved my poor mother. It received us poor and destitute, and now what
is wanting to us five fellows who fell on it from the sky?”

“Nothing,” replied Neb; “nothing, captain.”

And the two brave men gave three tremendous cheers in honor of their
island!

During all this time Gideon Spilett, leaning against the mast, sketched
the panorama which was developed before his eyes.

Cyrus Harding gazed on it in silence.

“Well, Captain Harding,” asked Pencroft, “what do you think of our
vessel?”

“She appears to behave well,” replied the engineer.

“Good! And do you think now that she could undertake a voyage of some
extent?”

“What voyage, Pencroft?”

“One to Tabor Island, for instance.”

“My friend,” replied Harding, “I think that in any pressing emergency
we need not hesitate to trust ourselves to the ‘Bonadventure’ even for
a longer voyage; but you know I should see you set off to Tabor Island
with great uneasiness, since nothing obliges you to go there.”

“One likes to know one’s neighbors,” returned the sailor, who was
obstinate in his idea. “Tabor Island is our neighbor, and the only one!
Politeness requires us to go at least to pay a visit.”

“By Jove,” said Spilett, “our friend Pencroft has become very particular
about the proprieties all at once!”

“I am not particular about anything at all,” retorted the sailor, who
was rather vexed by the engineer’s opposition, but who did not wish to
cause him anxiety.

“Consider, Pencroft,” resumed Harding, “you cannot go alone to Tabor
Island.”

“One companion will be enough for me.”

“Even so,” replied the engineer, “you will risk depriving the colony of
Lincoln Island of two settlers out of five.”

“Out of six,” answered Pencroft; “you forget Jup.”

“Out of seven,” added Neb; “Top is quite worth another.”

“There is no risk at all in it, captain,” replied Pencroft.

“That is possible, Pencroft; but I repeat it is to expose ourselves
uselessly.”

The obstinate sailor did not reply, and let the conversation drop, quite
determined to resume it again. But he did not suspect that an incident
would come to his aid and change into an act of humanity that which was
at first only a doubtful whim.

After standing off the shore the “Bonadventure” again approached it
in the direction of Port Balloon. It was important to ascertain the
channels between the sandbanks and reefs, that buoys might be laid down
since this little creek was to be the harbor.

They were not more than half a mile from the coast, and it was necessary
to tack to beat against the wind. The “Bonadventure” was then going at a
very moderate rate, as the breeze, partly intercepted by the high land,
scarcely swelled her sails, and the sea, smooth as glass, was only
rippled now and then by passing gusts.

Herbert had stationed himself in the bows that he might indicate the
course to be followed among the channels, when all at once he shouted,--

“Luff, Pencroft, luff!”

“What’s the matter,” replied the sailor; “a rock?”

“No--wait,” said Herbert; “I don’t quite see. Luff again--right--now.”

So saying, Herbert, leaning over the side, plunged his arm into the
water, and pulled it out, exclaiming,--

“A bottle!”

He held in his hand a corked bottle which he had just seized a few
cables’ length from the shore.

Cyrus Harding took the bottle. Without uttering a single word he drew
the cork, and took from it a damp paper, on which were written these
words:--

“Castaway.... Tabor island: 153deg W. long., 37deg 11’ S. lat.”



Chapter 13

“A castaway!” exclaimed Pencroft; “left on this Tabor Island not two
hundred miles from us! Ah, Captain Harding, you won’t now oppose my
going.”

“No, Pencroft,” replied Cyrus Harding; “and you shall set out as soon as
possible.”

“To-morrow?”

“To-morrow!”

The engineer still held in his hand the paper which he had taken from
the bottle. He contemplated it for some instants, then resumed,

“From this document, my friends, from the way in which it is worded,
we may conclude this: first, that the castaway on Tabor Island is a man
possessing a considerable knowledge of navigation, since he gives the
latitude and longitude of the island exactly as we ourselves found it,
and to a second of approximation; secondly, that he is either English or
American, as the document is written in the English language.”

“That is perfectly logical,” answered Spilett; “and the presence of this
castaway explains the arrival of the case on the shores of our island.
There must have been a wreck, since there is a castaway. As to the
latter, whoever he may be, it is lucky for him that Pencroft thought of
building this boat and of trying her this very day, for a day later and
this bottle might have been broken on the rocks.”

“Indeed,” said Herbert, “it is a fortunate chance that the
‘Bonadventure’ passed exactly where the bottle was still floating!”

“Does not this appear strange to you?” asked Harding of Pencroft.

“It appears fortunate, that’s all,” answered the sailor. “Do you see
anything extraordinary in it, captain? The bottle must go somewhere, and
why not here as well as anywhere else?”

“Perhaps you are right, Pencroft,” replied the engineer; “and yet--”

“But,” observed Herbert, “there’s nothing to prove that this bottle has
been floating long in the sea.”

“Nothing,” replied Gideon Spilett, “and the document appears even to
have been recently written. What do you think about it, Cyrus?”

During this conversation Pencroft had not remained inactive. He had put
the vessel about, and the “Bonadventure,” all sails set, was running
rapidly towards Claw Cape.

Every one was thinking of the castaway on Tabor Island. Should they
be in time to save him? This was a great event in the life of the
colonists! They themselves were but castaways, but it was to be feared
that another might not have been so fortunate, and their duty was to go
to his succor.

Claw Cape was doubled, and about four o’clock the “Bonadventure” dropped
her anchor at the mouth of the Mercy.

That same evening the arrangements for the new expedition were made.
It appeared best that Pencroft and Herbert, who knew how to work the
vessel, should undertake the voyage alone. By setting out the next day,
the 10th of October, they would arrive on the 13th, for with the present
wind it would not take more than forty-eight hours to make this passage
of a hundred and fifty miles. One day in the island, three or four to
return, they might hope therefore that on the 17th they would again
reach Lincoln Island. The weather was fine, the barometer was rising,
the wind appeared settled, everything then was in favor of these brave
men whom an act of humanity was taking far from their island.

Thus it had been agreed that Cyrus Harding, Neb, and Gideon Spilett
should remain at Granite House, but an objection was raised, and
Spilett, who had not forgotten his business as reporter to the New York
Herald, having declared that he would go by swimming rather than lose
such an opportunity, he was admitted to take a part in the voyage.

The evening was occupied in transporting on board the “Bonadventure,”
 articles of bedding, utensils, arms, ammunition, a compass, provisions
for a week; this being rapidly done, the colonists ascended to Granite
House.

The next day, at five o’clock in the morning, the farewells were said,
not without some emotion on both sides, and Pencroft setting sail made
towards Claw Cape, which had to be doubled in order to proceed to the
southwest.

The “Bonadventure” was already a quarter of a mile from the coast when
the passengers perceived on the heights of Granite House two men waving
their farewells; they were Cyrus Harding and Neb.

“Our friends,” exclaimed Spilett, “this is our first separation in
fifteen months.”

Pencroft, the reporter and Herbert waved in return, and Granite House
soon disappeared behind the high rocks of the Cape.

During the first part of the day the “Bonadventure” was still in sight
of the southern coast of Lincoln Island, which soon appeared just like
a green basket, with Mount Franklin rising from the center. The heights,
diminished by distance, did not present an appearance likely to tempt
vessels to touch there. Reptile End was passed in about an hour, though
at a distance of about ten miles.

At this distance it was no longer possible to distinguish anything of
the Western Coast, which stretched away to the ridges of Mount Franklin,
and three hours after the last of Lincoln Island sank below the horizon.

The “Bonadventure” behaved capitally. Bounding over the waves she
proceeded rapidly on her course. Pencroft had hoisted the foresail, and
steering by the compass followed a rectilinear direction. From time to
time Herbert relieved him at the helm, and the lad’s hand was so firm
that the sailor had not a point to find fault with.

Gideon Spilett chatted sometimes with one, sometimes with the other, if
wanted he lent a hand with the ropes, and Captain Pencroft was perfectly
satisfied with his crew.

In the evening the crescent moon, which would not be in its first
quarter until the 16th, appeared in the twilight and soon set again. The
night was dark but starry, and the next day again promised to be fine.

Pencroft prudently lowered the foresail, not wishing to be caught by
a sudden gust while carrying too much canvas; it was perhaps an
unnecessary precaution on such a calm night, but Pencroft was a prudent
sailor and cannot be blamed for it.

The reporter slept part of the night. Pencroft and Herbert took turns
for a spell of two hours each at the helm. The sailor trusted Herbert as
he would himself, and his confidence was justified by the coolness and
judgment of the lad. Pencroft gave him his directions as a commander to
his steersman, and Herbert never allowed the “Bonadventure” to swerve
even a point. The night passed quickly, as did the day of the 12th of
October. A south-easterly direction was strictly maintained. Unless the
“Bonadventure” fell in with some unknown current she would come exactly
within sight of Tabor Island.

As to the sea over which the vessel was then sailing, it was absolutely
deserted. Now and then a great albatross or frigate bird passed within
gunshot, and Gideon Spilett wondered if it was to one of them that he
had confided his last letter addressed to the New York Herald. These
birds were the only beings that appeared to frequent this part of the
ocean between Tabor and Lincoln Islands.

“And yet,” observed Herbert, “this is the time that whalers usually
proceed towards the southern part of the Pacific. Indeed I do not think
there could be a more deserted sea than this.”

“It is not quite so deserted as all that,” replied Pencroft.

“What do you mean?” asked the reporter.

“We are on it. Do you take our vessel for a wreck and us for porpoises?”

And Pencroft laughed at his joke.

By the evening, according to calculation, it was thought that the
“Bonadventure” had accomplished a distance of a hundred and twenty miles
since her departure from Lincoln Island, that is to say in thirty-six
hours, which would give her a speed of between three and four knots.
The breeze was very slight and might soon drop altogether.
However, it was hoped that the next morning by break of day, if the
calculation had been correct and the course true, they would sight Tabor
Island.

Neither Gideon Spilett, Herbert, nor Pencroft slept that night. In the
expectation of the next day they could not but feel some emotion.
There was so much uncertainty in their enterprise! Were they near Tabor
Island? Was the island still inhabited by the castaway to whose succor
they had come? Who was this man? Would not his presence disturb the
little colony till then so united? Besides, would he be content to
exchange his prison for another? All these questions, which would no
doubt be answered the next day, kept them in suspense, and at the dawn
of day they all fixed their gaze on the western horizon.

“Land!” shouted Pencroft at about six o’clock in the morning.

And it was impossible that Pencroft should be mistaken, it was
evident that land was there. Imagine the joy of the little crew of
the “Bonadventure.” In a few hours they would land on the beach of the
island!

The low coast of Tabor Island, scarcely emerging from the sea, was not
more than fifteen miles distant.

The head of the “Bonadventure,” which was a little to the south of the
island, was set directly towards it, and as the sun mounted in the east,
its rays fell upon one or two headlands.

“This is a much less important isle than Lincoln Island,” observed
Herbert, “and is probably due like ours to some submarine convulsion.”

At eleven o’clock the “Bonadventure” was not more than two miles off,
and Pencroft, while looking for a suitable place at which to land,
proceeded very cautiously through the unknown waters. The whole of the
island could now be surveyed, and on it could be seen groups of gum
and other large trees, of the same species as those growing on Lincoln
Island. But the astonishing thing was that no smoke arose to show that
the island was inhabited, no signal whatever appeared on the shore!

And yet the document was clear enough; there was a castaway, and this
castaway should have been on the watch.

In the meanwhile the “Bonadventure” entered the winding channels among
the reefs, and Pencroft observed every turn with extreme care. He had
put Herbert at the helm, posting himself in the bows, inspecting the
water, while he held the halliard in his hand, ready to lower the sail
at a moment’s notice. Gideon Spilett with his glass eagerly scanned the
shore, though without perceiving anything.

However, at about twelve o’clock the keel of the “Bonadventure” grated
on the bottom. The anchor was let go, the sails furled, and the crew of
the little vessel landed.

And there was no reason to doubt that this was Tabor Island, since
according to the most recent charts there was no island in this part of
the Pacific between New Zealand and the American Coast.

The vessel was securely moored, so that there should be no danger of
her being carried away by the receding tide; then Pencroft and his
companions, well armed, ascended the shore, so as to gain an elevation
of about two hundred and fifty or three hundred feet which rose at a
distance of half a mile.

“From the summit of that hill,” said Spilett, “we can no doubt obtain a
complete view of the island, which will greatly facilitate our search.”

“So as to do here,” replied Herbert, “that which Captain Harding did the
very first thing on Lincoln Island, by climbing Mount Franklin.”

“Exactly so,” answered the reporter, “and it is the best plan.”

While thus talking the explorers had advanced along a clearing
which terminated at the foot of the hill. Flocks of rock-pigeons and
sea-swallows, similar to those of Lincoln Island, fluttered around them.
Under the woods which skirted the glade on the left they could hear the
bushes rustling and see the grass waving, which indicated the presence
of timid animals, but still nothing to show that the island was
inhabited.

Arrived at the foot of the hill, Pencroft, Spilett, and Herbert climbed
it in a few minutes, and gazed anxiously round the horizon.

They were on an islet, which did not measure more than six miles in
circumference, its shape not much bordered by capes or promontories,
bays or creeks, being a lengthened oval. All around, the lonely sea
extended to the limits of the horizon. No land nor even a sail was in
sight.

This woody islet did not offer the varied aspects of Lincoln Island,
arid and wild in one part, but fertile and rich in the other. On the
contrary this was a uniform mass of verdure, out of which rose two or
three hills of no great height. Obliquely to the oval of the island ran
a stream through a wide meadow falling into the sea on the west by a
narrow mouth.

“The domain is limited,” said Herbert.

“Yes,” rejoined Pencroft: “It would have been too small for us.”

“And moreover,” said the reporter, “it appears to be uninhabited.”

“Indeed,” answered Herbert, “nothing here betrays the presence of man.”

“Let us go down,” said Pencroft, “and search.”

The sailor and his two companions returned to the shore, to the place
where they had left the “Bonadventure.”

They had decided to make the tour of the island on foot, before
exploring the interior; so that not a spot should escape their
investigations. The beach was easy to follow, and only in some places
was their way barred by large rocks, which, however, they easily passed
round. The explorers proceeded towards the south, disturbing numerous
flocks of sea-birds and herds of seals, which threw themselves into the
sea as soon as they saw the strangers at a distance.

“Those beasts yonder,” observed the reporter, “do not see men for the
first time. They fear them, therefore they must know them.”

An hour after their departure they arrived on the southern point of the
islet, terminated by a sharp cape, and proceeded towards the north along
the western coast, equally formed by sand and rocks, the background
bordered with thick woods.

There was not a trace of a habitation in any part, not the print of a
human foot on the shore of the island, which after four hours’ walking
had been gone completely round.

It was to say the least very extraordinary, and they were compelled to
believe that Tabor Island was not or was no longer inhabited. Perhaps,
after all the document was already several months or several years old,
and it was possible in this case, either that the castaway had been
enabled to return to his country, or that he had died of misery.

Pencroft, Spilett, and Herbert, forming more or less probable
conjectures, dined rapidly on board the “Bonadventure” so as to be
able to continue their excursion until nightfall. This was done at five
o’clock in the evening, at which hour they entered the wood.

Numerous animals fled at their approach, being principally, one might
say, only goats and pigs, which were obviously European species.

Doubtless some whaler had landed them on the island, where they had
rapidly increased. Herbert resolved to catch one or two living, and take
them back to Lincoln Island.

It was no longer doubtful that men at some period or other had visited
this islet, and this became still more evident when paths appeared
trodden through the forest, felled trees, and everywhere traces of the
hand of man; but the trees were becoming rotten, and had been felled
many years ago; the marks of the axe were velveted with moss, and the
grass grew long and thick on the paths, so that it was difficult to find
them.

“But,” observed Gideon Spilett, “this not only proves that men have
landed on the island, but also that they lived on it for some time. Now,
who were these men? How many of them remain?”

“The document,” said Herbert, “only spoke of one castaway.”

“Well, if he is still on the island,” replied Pencroft, “it is
impossible but that we shall find him.”

The exploration was continued. The sailor and his companions naturally
followed the route which cut diagonally across the island, and they were
thus obliged to follow the stream which flowed towards the sea.

If the animals of European origin, if works due to a human hand, showed
incontestably that men had already visited the island, several specimens
of the vegetable kingdom did not prove it less. In some places, in the
midst of clearings, it was evident that the soil had been planted with
culinary plants, at probably the same distant period.

What, then, was Herbert’s joy, when he recognized potatoes, chicory,
sorrel, carrots, cabbages, and turnips, of which it was sufficient to
collect the seed to enrich the soil of Lincoln Island.

“Capital, jolly!” exclaimed Pencroft. “That will suit Neb as well as us.
Even if we do not find the castaway, at least our voyage will not have
been useless, and God will have rewarded us.”

“Doubtless,” replied Gideon Spilett, “but to see the state in which we
find these plantations, it is to be feared that the island has not been
inhabited for some time.”

“Indeed,” answered Herbert, “an inhabitant, whoever he was, could not
have neglected such an important culture!”

“Yes,” said Pencroft, “the castaway has gone.”

“We must suppose so.”

“It must then be admitted that the document has already a distant date?”

“Evidently.”

“And that the bottle only arrived at Lincoln Island after having floated
in the sea a long time.”

“Why not?” returned Pencroft. “But night is coming on,” added he, “and I
think that it will be best to give up the search for the present.”

“Let us go on board, and to-morrow we will begin again,” said the
reporter.

This was the wisest course, and it was about to be followed when
Herbert, pointing to a confused mass among the trees, exclaimed,--

“A hut!”

All three immediately ran towards the dwelling. In the twilight it was
just possible to see that it was built of planks and covered with a
thick tarpaulin.

The half-closed door was pushed open by Pencroft, who entered with a
rapid step.

The hut was empty!



Chapter 14

Pencroft, Herbert, and Gideon Spilett remained silent in the midst of
the darkness.

Pencroft shouted loudly.

No reply was made.

The sailor then struck a light and set fire to a twig. This lighted for
a minute a small room, which appeared perfectly empty. At the back was
a rude fireplace, with a few cold cinders, supporting an armful of dry
wood. Pencroft threw the blazing twig on it, the wood crackled and gave
forth a bright light.

The sailor and his two companions then perceived a disordered bed, of
which the damp and yellow coverlets proved that it had not been used for
a long time. In the corner of the fireplace were two kettles, covered
with rust, and an overthrown pot. A cupboard, with a few moldy sailor’s
clothes; on the table a tin plate and a Bible, eaten away by damp; in a
corner a few tools, a spade, pickaxe, two fowling-pieces, one of which
was broken; on a plank, forming a shelf, stood a barrel of powder, still
untouched, a barrel of shot, and several boxes of caps, all thickly
covered with dust, accumulated, perhaps, by many long years.

“There is no one here,” said the reporter.

“No one,” replied Pencroft.

“It is a long time since this room has been inhabited,” observed
Herbert.

“Yes, a very long time!” answered the reporter.

“Mr. Spilett,” then said Pencroft, “instead of returning on board, I
think that it would be well to pass the night in this hut.”

“You are right, Pencroft,” answered Gideon Spilett, “and if its owner
returns, well! perhaps he will not be sorry to find the place taken
possession of.”

“He will not return,” said the sailor, shaking his head.

“You think that he has quitted the island?” asked the reporter.

“If he had quitted the island he would have taken away his weapons and
his tools,” replied Pencroft. “You know the value which castaways set
on such articles as these the last remains of a wreck. No! no!” repeated
the sailor, in a tone of conviction; “no, he has not left the island! If
he had escaped in a boat made by himself, he would still less have left
these indispensable and necessary articles. No! he is on the island!”

“Living?” asked Herbert.

“Living or dead. But if he is dead, I suppose he has not buried himself,
and so we shall at least find his remains!”

It was then agreed that the night should be passed in the deserted
dwelling, and a store of wood found in a corner was sufficient to warm
it. The door closed, Pencroft, Herbert and Spilett remained there,
seated on a bench, talking little but wondering much. They were in a
frame of mind to imagine anything or expect anything. They listened
eagerly for sounds outside. The door might have opened suddenly, and
a man presented himself to them without their being in the least
surprised, notwithstanding all that the hut revealed of abandonment,
and they had their hands ready to press the hands of this man, this
castaway, this unknown friend, for whom friends were waiting.

But no voice was heard, the door did not open. The hours thus passed
away.

How long the night appeared to the sailor and his companions! Herbert
alone slept for two hours, for at his age sleep is a necessity. They
were all three anxious to continue their exploration of the day before,
and to search the most secret recesses of the islet! The inferences
deduced by Pencroft were perfectly reasonable, and it was nearly certain
that, as the hut was deserted, and the tools, utensils, and weapons were
still there, the owner had succumbed. It was agreed, therefore, that
they should search for his remains, and give them at least Christian
burial.

Day dawned; Pencroft and his companions immediately proceeded to survey
the dwelling. It had certainly been built in a favorable situation,
at the back of a little hill, sheltered by five or six magnificent
gum-trees. Before its front and through the trees the axe had prepared
a wide clearing, which allowed the view to extend to the sea. Beyond a
lawn, surrounded by a wooden fence falling to pieces, was the shore, on
the left of which was the mouth of the stream.

The hut had been built of planks, and it was easy to see that these
planks had been obtained from the hull or deck of a ship. It was
probable that a disabled vessel had been cast on the coast of the
island, that one at least of the crew had been saved, and that by means
of the wreck this man, having tools at his disposal, had built the
dwelling.

And this became still more evident when Gideon Spilett, after having
walked around the hut, saw on a plank, probably one of those which
had formed the armor of the wrecked vessel, these letters already half
effaced:


              BR--TAN--A


“Britannia,” exclaimed Pencroft, whom the reporter had called; “it is
a common name for ships, and I could not say if she was English or
American!”

“It matters very little, Pencroft!”

“Very little indeed,” answered the sailor, “and we will save the
survivor of her crew if he is still living, to whatever country he may
belong. But before beginning our search again let us go on board the
‘Bonadventure’.”

A sort of uneasiness had seized Pencroft upon the subject of his vessel.
Should the island be inhabited after all, and should some one have taken
possession of her? But he shrugged his shoulders at such an unreasonable
supposition. At any rate the sailor was not sorry to go to breakfast on
board. The road already trodden was not long, scarcely a mile. They set
out on their walk, gazing into the wood and thickets through which goats
and pigs fled in hundreds.

Twenty minutes after leaving the hut Pencroft and his companions reached
the western coast of the island, and saw the “Bonadventure” held fast by
her anchor, which was buried deep in the sand.

Pencroft could not restrain a sigh of satisfaction. After all this
vessel was his child, and it is the right of fathers to be often uneasy
when there is no occasion for it.

They returned on board, breakfasted, so that it should not be necessary
to dine until very late; then the repast being ended, the exploration
was continued and conducted with the most minute care. Indeed, it was
very probable that the only inhabitant of the island had perished. It
was therefore more for the traces of a dead than of a living man that
Pencroft and his companions searched. But their searches were vain, and
during the half of that day they sought to no purpose among the thickets
of trees which covered the islet. There was then scarcely any doubt
that, if the castaway was dead, no trace of his body now remained, but
that some wild beast had probably devoured it to the last bone.

“We will set off to-morrow at daybreak,” said Pencroft to his two
companions, as about two o’clock they were resting for a few minutes
under the shade of a clump of firs.

“I should think that we might without scruple take the utensils which
belonged to the castaway,” added Herbert.

“I think so, too,” returned Gideon Spilett, “and these arms and tools
will make up the stores of Granite House. The supply of powder and shot
is also most important.”

“Yes,” replied Pencroft, “but we must not forget to capture a couple or
two of those pigs, of which Lincoln Island is destitute.”

“Nor to gather those seeds,” added Herbert, “which will give us all the
vegetables of the Old and the New Worlds.”

“Then perhaps it would be best,” said the reporter, “to remain a day
longer on Tabor Island, so as to collect all that may be useful to us.”

“No, Mr. Spilett,” answered Pencroft, “I will ask you to set off
to-morrow at daybreak. The wind seems to me to be likely to shift to the
west, and after having had a fair wind for coming we shall have a fair
wind for going back.”

“Then do not let us lose time,” said Herbert, rising.

“We won’t waste time,” returned Pencroft. “You, Herbert, go and gather
the seeds, which you know better than we do. While you do that, Mr.
Spilett and I will go and have a pig hunt, and even without Top I hope
we shall manage to catch a few!”

Herbert accordingly took the path which led towards the cultivated part
of the islet, while the sailor and the reporter entered the forest.

Many specimens of the porcine race fled before them, and these animals,
which were singularly active, did not appear to be in a humor to allow
themselves to be approached.

However, after an hour’s chase, the hunters had just managed to get hold
of a couple lying in a thicket, when cries were heard resounding from
the north part of the island, With the cries were mingled terrible
yells, in which there was nothing human.

Pencroft and Gideon Spilett were at once on their feet, and the pigs
by this movement began to run away, at the moment when the sailor was
getting ready the rope to bind them.

“That’s Herbert’s voice,” said the reporter.

“Run!” exclaimed Pencroft.

And the sailor and Spilett immediately ran at full speed towards the
spot from whence the cries proceeded.

They did well to hasten, for at a turn of the path near a clearing they
saw the lad thrown on the ground and in the grasp of a savage being,
apparently a gigantic ape, who was about to do him some great harm.

To rush on this monster, throw him on the ground in his turn, snatch
Herbert from him, then bind him securely, was the work of a minute for
Pencroft and Gideon Spilett. The sailor was of Herculean strength, the
reporter also very powerful, and in spite of the monster’s resistance he
was firmly tied so that he could not even move.

“You are not hurt, Herbert?” asked Spilett.

“No, no!”

“Oh, if this ape had wounded him!” exclaimed Pencroft.

“But he is not an ape,” answered Herbert.

At these words Pencroft and Gideon Spilett looked at the singular being
who lay on the ground. Indeed it was not an ape; it was a human being,
a man. But what a man! A savage in all the horrible acceptation of the
word, and so much the more frightful that he seemed fallen to the lowest
degree of brutishness!

Shaggy hair, untrimmed beard descending to the chest, the body almost
naked except a rag round the waist, wild eyes, enormous hands with
immensely long nails, skin the color of mahogany, feet as hard as if
made of horn, such was the miserable creature who yet had a claim to be
called a man. But it might justly be asked if there were yet a soul in
this body, or if the brute instinct alone survived in it!

“Are you quite sure that this is a man, or that he has ever been one?”
 said Pencroft to the reporter.

“Alas! there is no doubt about it,” replied Spilett.

“Then this must be the castaway?” asked Herbert.

“Yes,” replied Gideon Spilett, “but the unfortunate man has no longer
anything human about him!”

The reporter spoke the truth. It was evident that if the castaway had
ever been a civilized being, solitude had made him a savage, or worse,
perhaps a regular man of the woods. Hoarse sounds issued from his throat
between his teeth, which were sharp as the teeth of a wild beast made to
tear raw flesh.

Memory must have deserted him long before, and for a long time also he
had forgotten how to use his gun and tools, and he no longer knew how to
make a fire! It could be seen that he was active and powerful, but the
physical qualities had been developed in him to the injury of the moral
qualities. Gideon Spilett spoke to him. He did not appear to understand
or even to hear. And yet on looking into his eyes, the reporter thought
he could see that all reason was not extinguished in him. However, the
prisoner did not struggle, nor even attempt to break his bonds. Was he
overwhelmed by the presence of men whose fellow he had once been? Had he
found in some corner of his brain a fleeting remembrance which recalled
him to humanity? If free, would he attempt to fly, or would he remain?
They could not tell, but they did not make the experiment; and after
gazing attentively at the miserable creature,--

“Whoever he may be,” remarked Gideon Spilett, “whoever he may have
been, and whatever he may become, it is our duty to take him with us to
Lincoln Island.”

“Yes, yes!” replied Herbert, “and perhaps with care we may arouse in him
some gleam of intelligence.”

“The soul does not die,” said the reporter, “and it would be a great
satisfaction to rescue one of God’s creatures from brutishness.”

Pencroft shook his head doubtfully.

“We must try at any rate,” returned the reporter; “humanity commands
us.”

It was indeed their duty as Christians and civilized beings. All three
felt this, and they well knew that Cyrus Harding would approve of their
acting thus.

“Shall we leave him bound?” asked the sailor.

“Perhaps he would walk if his feet were unfastened,” said Herbert.

“Let us try,” replied Pencroft.

The cords which shackled the prisoner’s feet were cut off, but his arms
remained securely fastened. He got up by himself and did not manifest
any desire to run away. His hard eyes darted a piercing glance at the
three men, who walked near him, but nothing denoted that he recollected
being their fellow, or at least having been so. A continual hissing
sound issued from his lips, his aspect was wild, but he did not attempt
to resist.

By the reporter’s advice the unfortunate man was taken to the hut.
Perhaps the sight of the things that belonged to him would make some
impression on him! Perhaps a spark would be sufficient to revive his
obscured intellect, to rekindle his dulled soul. The dwelling was
not far off. In a few minutes they arrived there, but the prisoner
remembered nothing, and it appeared that he had lost consciousness of
everything.

What could they think of the degree of brutishness into which this
miserable being had fallen, unless that his imprisonment on the islet
dated from a very distant period and after having arrived there a
rational being solitude had reduced him to this condition.

The reporter then thought that perhaps the sight of fire would have
some effect on him, and in a moment one of those beautiful flames, that
attract even animals, blazed up on the hearth. The sight of the flame
seemed at first to fix the attention of the unhappy object, but soon
he turned away and the look of intelligence faded. Evidently there was
nothing to be done, for the time at least, but to take him on board
the “Bonadventure.” This was done, and he remained there in Pencroft’s
charge.

Herbert and Spilett returned to finish their work; and some hours after
they came back to the shore, carrying the utensils and guns, a store of
vegetables, of seeds, some game, and two couple of pigs.

All was embarked, and the “Bonadventure” was ready to weigh anchor and
sail with the morning tide.

The prisoner had been placed in the fore-cabin, where he remained quiet,
silent, apparently deaf and dumb.

Pencroft offered him something to eat, but he pushed away the cooked
meat that was presented to him and which doubtless did not suit him. But
on the sailor showing him one of the ducks which Herbert had killed, he
pounced on it like a wild beast, and devoured it greedily.

“You think that he will recover his senses?” asked Pencroft. “It is
not impossible that our care will have an effect upon him, for it is
solitude that has made him what he is, and from this time forward he
will be no longer alone.”

“The poor man must no doubt have been in this state for a long time,”
 said Herbert.

“Perhaps,” answered Gideon Spilett.

“About what age is he?” asked the lad.

“It is difficult to say,” replied the reporter, “for it is impossible to
see his features under the thick beard which covers his face, but he is
no longer young, and I suppose he might be about fifty.”

“Have you noticed, Mr. Spilett, how deeply sunk his eyes are?” asked
Herbert.

“Yes, Herbert, but I must add that they are more human than one could
expect from his appearance.”

“However, we shall see,” replied Pencroft, “and I am anxious to know
what opinion Captain Harding will have of our savage. We went to look
for a human creature, and we are bringing back a monster! After all, we
did what we could.”

The night passed, and whether the prisoner slept or not could not be
known, but at any rate, although he had been unbound, he did not
move. He was like a wild animal, which appears stunned at first by its
capture, and becomes wild again afterwards.


At daybreak the next morning, the 15th of October, the change of weather
predicted by Pencroft occurred. The wind having shifted to the northwest
favored the return of the “Bonadventure,” but at the same time it
freshened, which might render navigation more difficult.

At five o’clock in the morning the anchor was weighed. Pencroft took a
reef in the mainsail, and steered towards the north-east, so as to sail
straight for Lincoln Island.

The first day of the voyage was not marked by any incident. The prisoner
remained quiet in the fore-cabin, and as he had been a sailor it
appeared that the motion of the vessel might produce on him a salutary
reaction. Did some recollection of his former calling return to him?
However that might be, he remained tranquil, astonished rather than
depressed.

The next day the wind increased, blowing more from the north,
consequently in a less favorable direction for the “Bonadventure.”
 Pencroft was soon obliged to sail close-hauled, and without saying
anything about it he began to be uneasy at the state of the sea, which
frequently broke over the bows. Certainly, if the wind did not moderate,
it would take a longer time to reach Lincoln Island than it had taken to
make Tabor Island.

Indeed, on the morning of the 17th, the “Bonadventure” had been
forty-eight hours at sea, and nothing showed that she was near the
island. It was impossible, besides, to estimate the distance traversed,
or to trust to the reckoning for the direction, as the speed had been
very irregular.

Twenty-four hours after there was yet no land in sight. The wind was
right ahead and the sea very heavy. The sails were close-reefed, and
they tacked frequently. On the 18th, a wave swept completely over the
“Bonadventure”; and if the crew had not taken the precaution of lashing
themselves to the deck, they would have been carried away.

On this occasion Pencroft and his companions, who were occupied with
loosing themselves, received unexpected aid from the prisoner, who
emerged from the hatchway as if his sailor’s instinct had suddenly
returned, broke a piece out of the bulwarks with a spar so as to let
the water which filled the deck escape. Then the vessel being clear, he
descended to his cabin without having uttered a word. Pencroft, Gideon
Spilett, and Herbert, greatly astonished, let him proceed.

Their situation was truly serious, and the sailor had reason to fear
that he was lost on the wide sea without any possibility of recovering
his course.

The night was dark and cold. However, about eleven o’clock, the wind
fell, the sea went down, and the speed of the vessel, as she labored
less, greatly increased.

Neither Pencroft, Spilett, nor Herbert thought of taking an hour’s
sleep. They kept a sharp look-out, for either Lincoln Island could not
be far distant and would be sighted at daybreak, or the “Bonadventure,”
 carried away by currents, had drifted so much that it would be
impossible to rectify her course. Pencroft, uneasy to the last degree,
yet did not despair, for he had a gallant heart, and grasping the tiller
he anxiously endeavored to pierce the darkness which surrounded them.

About two o’clock in the morning he started forward,--

“A light! a light!” he shouted.

Indeed, a bright light appeared twenty miles to the northeast. Lincoln
Island was there, and this fire, evidently lighted by Cyrus Harding,
showed them the course to be followed. Pencroft, who was bearing too
much to the north, altered his course and steered towards the fire,
which burned brightly above the horizon like a star of the first
magnitude.



Chapter 15

The next day, the 20th of October, at seven o’clock in the morning,
after a voyage of four days, the “Bonadventure” gently glided up to the
beach at the mouth of the Mercy.

Cyrus Harding and Neb, who had become very uneasy at the bad weather and
the prolonged absence of their companions, had climbed at daybreak to
the plateau of Prospect Heights, and they had at last caught sight of
the vessel which had been so long in returning.

“God be praised! there they are!” exclaimed Cyrus Harding.

As to Neb in his joy, he began to dance, to twirl round, clapping his
hands and shouting, “Oh! my master!” A more touching pantomime than the
finest discourse.

The engineer’s first idea, on counting the people on the deck of the
“Bonadventure,” was that Pencroft had not found the castaway of Tabor
Island, or at any rate that the unfortunate man had refused to leave his
island and change one prison for another.

Indeed Pencroft, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert were alone on the deck of
the “Bonadventure.”

The moment the vessel touched, the engineer and Neb were waiting on
the beach, and before the passengers had time to leap on to the sand,
Harding said: “We have been very uneasy at your delay, my friends! Did
you meet with any accident?”

“No,” replied Gideon Spilett; “on the contrary, everything went
wonderfully well. We will tell you all about it.”

“However,” returned the engineer, “your search has been unsuccessful,
since you are only three, just as you went!”

“Excuse me, captain,” replied the sailor, “we are four.”

“You have found the castaway?”

“Yes.”

“And you have brought him?”

“Yes.”

“Living?”

“Yes.”

“Where is he? Who is he?”

“He is,” replied the reporter, “or rather he was a man! There, Cyrus,
that is all we can tell you!”

The engineer was then informed of all that had passed during the voyage,
and under what conditions the search had been conducted; how the only
dwelling in the island had long been abandoned; how at last a castaway
had been captured, who appeared no longer to belong to the human
species.

“And that’s just the point,” added Pencroft, “I don’t know if we have
done right to bring him here.”

“Certainly you have, Pencroft,” replied the engineer quickly.

“But the wretched creature has no sense!”

“That is possible at present,” replied Cyrus Harding, “but only a few
months ago the wretched creature was a man like you and me. And who
knows what will become of the survivor of us after a long solitude on
this island? It is a great misfortune to be alone, my friends; and it
must be believed that solitude can quickly destroy reason, since you
have found this poor creature in such a state!”

“But, captain,” asked Herbert, “what leads you to think that the
brutishness of the unfortunate man began only a few months back?”

“Because the document we found had been recently written,” answered the
engineer, “and the castaway alone can have written it.”

“Always supposing,” observed Gideon Spilett, “that it had not been
written by a companion of this man, since dead.”

“That is impossible, my dear Spilett.”

“Why so?” asked the reporter.

“Because the document would then have spoken of two castaways,” replied
Harding, “and it mentioned only one.”

Herbert then in a few words related the incidents of the voyage, and
dwelt on the curious fact of the sort of passing gleam in the prisoner’s
mind, when for an instant in the height of the storm he had become a
sailor.

“Well, Herbert,” replied the engineer, “you are right to attach great
importance to this fact. The unfortunate man cannot be incurable, and
despair has made him what he is; but here he will find his fellow-men,
and since there is still a soul in him, this soul we shall save!”

The castaway of Tabor Island, to the great pity of the engineer and
the great astonishment of Neb, was then brought from the cabin which he
occupied in the fore part of the “Bonadventure”; when once on land he
manifested a wish to run away.

But Cyrus Harding approaching, placed his hand on his shoulder with a
gesture full of authority, and looked at him with infinite tenderness.
Immediately the unhappy man, submitting to a superior will, gradually
became calm, his eyes fell, his head bent, and he made no more
resistance.

“Poor fellow!” murmured the engineer.

Cyrus Harding had attentively observed him. To judge by his appearance
this miserable being had no longer anything human about him, and
yet Harding, as had the reporter already, observed in his look an
indefinable trace of intelligence.

It was decided that the castaway, or rather the stranger as he was
thenceforth termed by his companions, should live in one of the rooms
of Granite House, from which, however, he could not escape. He was led
there without difficulty, and with careful attention, it might, perhaps,
be hoped that some day he would be a companion to the settlers in
Lincoln Island.

Cyrus Harding, during breakfast, which Neb had hastened to prepare,
as the reporter, Herbert, and Pencroft were dying of hunger, heard in
detail all the incidents which had marked the voyage of exploration to
the islet. He agreed with his friends on this point, that the stranger
must be either English or American, the name Britannia leading them
to suppose this, and, besides, through the bushy beard, and under
the shaggy, matted hair, the engineer thought he could recognize the
characteristic features of the Anglo-Saxon.

“But, by the bye,” said Gideon Spilett, addressing Herbert, “you never
told us how you met this savage, and we know nothing, except that you
would have been strangled, if we had not happened to come up in time to
help you!”

“Upon my word,” answered Herbert, “it is rather difficult to say how it
happened. I was, I think, occupied in collecting my plants, when I heard
a noise like an avalanche falling from a very tall tree. I scarcely
had time to look round. This unfortunate man, who was without doubt
concealed in a tree, rushed upon me in less time than I take to tell you
about it, and unless Mr. Spilett and Pencroft--”

“My boy!” said Cyrus Harding, “you ran a great danger, but, perhaps,
without that, the poor creature would have still hidden himself from
your search, and we should not have had a new companion.”

“You hope, then, Cyrus, to succeed in reforming the man?” asked the
reporter.

“Yes,” replied the engineer.

Breakfast over, Harding and his companions left Granite House and
returned to the beach. They there occupied themselves in unloading the
“Bonadventure,” and the engineer, having examined the arms and tools,
saw nothing which could help them to establish the identity of the
stranger.

The capture of pigs, made on the islet, was looked upon as being very
profitable to Lincoln Island, and the animals were led to the sty, where
they soon became at home.

The two barrels, containing the powder and shot, as well as the box
of caps, were very welcome. It was agreed to establish a small
powder-magazine, either outside Granite House or in the Upper Cavern,
where there would be no fear of explosion. However, the use of pyroxyle
was to be continued, for this substance giving excellent results, there
was no reason for substituting ordinary powder.

When the unloading of the vessel was finished,--

“Captain,” said Pencroft, “I think it would be prudent to put our
‘Bonadventure’ in a safe place.”

“Is she not safe at the mouth of the Mercy?” asked Cyrus Harding.

“No, captain,” replied the sailor. “Half of the time she is stranded on
the sand, and that works her. She is a famous craft, you see, and she
behaved admirably during the squall which struck us on our return.”

“Could she not float in the river?”

“No doubt, captain, she could; but there is no shelter there, and in the
east winds, I think that the ‘Bonadventure’ would suffer much from the
surf.”

“Well, where would you put her, Pencroft?”

“In Port Balloon,” replied the sailor. “That little creek, shut in by
rocks, seems to me to be just the harbor we want.”

“Is it not rather far?”

“Pooh! it is not more than three miles from Granite House, and we have a
fine straight road to take us there!”

“Do it then, Pencroft, and take your ‘Bonadventure’ there,” replied
the engineer, “and yet I would rather have her under our more immediate
protection. When we have time, we must make a little harbor for her.”

“Famous!” exclaimed Pencroft. “A harbor with a lighthouse, a pier, and
dock! Ah! really with you, captain, everything becomes easy.”

“Yes, my brave Pencroft,” answered the engineer, “but on condition,
however, that you help me, for you do as much as three men in all our
work.”

Herbert and the sailor then re-embarked on board the “Bonadventure,”
 the anchor was weighed, the sail hoisted, and the wind drove her rapidly
towards Claw Cape. Two hours after, she was reposing on the tranquil
waters of Port Balloon.

During the first days passed by the stranger in Granite House, had he
already given them reason to think that his savage nature was becoming
tamed? Did a brighter light burn in the depths of that obscured mind? In
short, was the soul returning to the body?

Yes, to a certainty, and to such a degree, that Cyrus Harding and the
reporter wondered if the reason of the unfortunate man had ever been
totally extinguished. At first, accustomed to the open air, to the
unrestrained liberty which he had enjoyed on Tabor Island, the stranger
manifested a sullen fury, and it was feared that he might throw
himself onto the beach, out of one of the windows of Granite House.
But gradually he became calmer, and more freedom was allowed to his
movements.

They had reason to hope, and to hope much. Already, forgetting his
carnivorous instincts, the stranger accepted a less bestial nourishment
than that on which he fed on the islet, and cooked meat did not produce
in him the same sentiment of repulsion which he had showed on board
the “Bonadventure.” Cyrus Harding had profited by a moment when he was
sleeping, to cut his hair and matted beard, which formed a sort of
mane and gave him such a savage aspect. He had also been clothed more
suitably, after having got rid of the rag which covered him. The result
was that, thanks to these attentions, the stranger resumed a more
human appearance, and it even seemed as if his eyes had become milder.
Certainly, when formerly lighted up by intelligence, this man’s face
must have had a sort of beauty.

Every day, Harding imposed on himself the task of passing some hours
in his company. He came and worked near him, and occupied himself in
different things, so as to fix his attention. A spark, indeed, would be
sufficient to reillumine that soul, a recollection crossing that brain
to recall reason. That had been seen, during the storm, on board the
“Bonadventure!” The engineer did not neglect either to speak aloud, so
as to penetrate at the same time by the organs of hearing and sight the
depths of that torpid intelligence. Sometimes one of his companions,
sometimes another, sometimes all joined him. They spoke most often of
things belonging to the navy, which must interest a sailor.

At times, the stranger gave some slight attention to what was said,
and the settlers were soon convinced that he partly understood them.
Sometimes the expression of his countenance was deeply sorrowful, a
proof that he suffered mentally, for his face could not be mistaken;
but he did not speak, although at different times, however, they almost
thought that words were about to issue from his lips. At all events, the
poor creature was quite quiet and sad!

But was not his calm only apparent? Was not his sadness only the result
of his seclusion? Nothing could yet be ascertained. Seeing only certain
objects and in a limited space, always in contact with the colonists,
to whom he would soon become accustomed, having no desires to satisfy,
better fed, better clothed, it was natural that his physical nature
should gradually improve; but was he penetrated with the sense of a new
life? or rather, to employ a word which would be exactly applicable
to him, was he not becoming tamed, like an animal in company with his
master? This was an important question, which Cyrus Harding was anxious
to answer, and yet he did not wish to treat his invalid roughly! Would
he ever be a convalescent?

How the engineer observed him every moment! How he was on the watch for
his soul, if one may use the expression! How he was ready to grasp it!
The settlers followed with real sympathy all the phases of the cure
undertaken by Harding. They aided him also in this work of humanity, and
all, except perhaps the incredulous Pencroft, soon shared both his hope
and his faith.

The calm of the stranger was deep, as has been said, and he even showed
a sort of attachment for the engineer, whose influence he evidently
felt. Cyrus Harding resolved then to try him, by transporting him
to another scene, from that ocean which formerly his eyes had been
accustomed to contemplate, to the border of the forest, which might
perhaps recall those where so many years of his life had been passed!

“But,” said Gideon Spilett, “can we hope that he will not escape, if
once set at liberty?”

“The experiment must be tried,” replied the engineer.

“Well!” said Pencroft. “When that fellow is outside, and feels the fresh
air, he will be off as fast as his legs can carry him!”

“I do not think so,” returned Harding.

“Let us try,” said Spilett.

“We will try,” replied the engineer.

This was on the 30th of October, and consequently the castaway of Tabor
Island had been a prisoner in Granite House for nine days. It was
warm, and a bright sun darted its rays on the island. Cyrus Harding and
Pencroft went to the room occupied by the stranger, who was found lying
near the window and gazing at the sky.

“Come, my friend,” said the engineer to him.

The stranger rose immediately. His eyes were fixed on Cyrus Harding, and
he followed him, while the sailor marched behind them, little confident
as to the result of the experiment.

Arrived at the door, Harding and Pencroft made him take his place in
the lift, while Neb, Herbert, and Gideon Spilett waited for them before
Granite House. The lift descended, and in a few moments all were united
on the beach.

The settlers went a short distance from the stranger, so as to leave him
at liberty.

He then made a few steps toward the sea, and his look brightened with
extreme animation, but he did not make the slightest attempt to escape.
He was gazing at the little waves which, broken by the islet, rippled on
the sand.

“This is only the sea,” observed Gideon Spilett, “and possibly it does
not inspire him with any wish to escape!”

“Yes,” replied Harding, “we must take him to the plateau, on the border
of the forest. There the experiment will be more conclusive.”

“Besides, he could not run away,” said Neb, “since the bridge is
raised.”

“Oh!” said Pencroft, “that isn’t a man to be troubled by a stream like
Creek Glycerine! He could cross it directly, at a single bound!”

“We shall soon see,” Harding contented himself with replying, his eyes
not quitting those of his patient.

The latter was then led towards the mouth of the Mercy, and all climbing
the left bank of the river, reached Prospect Heights.

Arrived at the spot on which grew the first beautiful trees of the
forest, their foliage slightly agitated by the breeze, the stranger
appeared greedily to drink in the penetrating odor which filled the
atmosphere, and a long sigh escaped from his chest.

The settlers kept behind him, ready to seize him if he made any movement
to escape!

And, indeed, the poor creature was on the point of springing into the
creek which separated him from the forest, and his legs were bent for an
instant as if for a spring, but almost immediately he stepped back, half
sank down, and a large tear fell from his eyes.

“Ah!” exclaimed Cyrus Harding, “you have become a man again, for you can
weep!”



Chapter 16

Yes! the unfortunate man had wept! Some recollection doubtless had
flashed across his brain, and to use Cyrus Harding’s expression, by
those tears he was once more a man.

The colonists left him for some time on the plateau, and withdrew
themselves to a short distance, so that he might feel himself free; but
he did not think of profiting by this liberty, and Harding soon brought
him back to Granite House. Two days after this occurrence, the stranger
appeared to wish gradually to mingle with their common life. He
evidently heard and understood, but no less evidently was he strangely
determined not to speak to the colonists; for one evening, Pencroft,
listening at the door of his room, heard these words escape from his
lips:--

“No! here! I! never!”

The sailor reported these words to his companions.

“There is some painful mystery there!” said Harding.

The stranger had begun to use the laboring tools, and he worked in the
garden. When he stopped in his work, as was often the case, he remained
retired within himself, but on the engineer’s recommendation, they
respected the reserve which he apparently wished to keep. If one of the
settlers approached him, he drew back, and his chest heaved with sobs,
as if overburdened!

Was it remorse that overwhelmed him thus? They were compelled to believe
so, and Gideon Spilett could not help one day making this observation,--

“If he does not speak it is because he has, I fear, things too serious
to be told!”

They must be patient and wait.

A few days later, on the 3rd of November, the stranger, working on the
plateau, had stopped, letting his spade drop to the ground, and Harding,
who was observing him from a little distance, saw that tears were again
flowing from his eyes. A sort of irresistible pity led him towards the
unfortunate man, and he touched his arm lightly.

“My friend!” said he.

The stranger tried to avoid his look, and Cyrus Harding having
endeavored to take his hand, he drew back quickly.

“My friend,” said Harding in a firmer voice, “look at me, I wish it!”

The stranger looked at the engineer, and seemed to be under his power,
as a subject under the influence of a mesmerist. He wished to run away.
But then his countenance suddenly underwent a transformation. His eyes
flashed. Words struggled to escape from his lips. He could no longer
contain himself! At last he folded his arms; then, in a hollow
voice,--“Who are you?” he asked Cyrus Harding.

“Castaways, like you,” replied the engineer, whose emotion was deep. “We
have brought you here, among your fellow-men.”

“My fellow-men!.... I have none!”

“You are in the midst of friends.”

“Friends!--for me! friends!” exclaimed the stranger, hiding his face in
his hands. “No--never--leave me! leave me!”

Then he rushed to the side of the plateau which overlooked the sea, and
remained there a long time motionless.

Harding rejoined his companions and related to them what had just
happened.

“Yes! there is some mystery in that man’s life,” said Gideon Spilett,
“and it appears as if he had only re-entered society by the path of
remorse.”

“I don’t know what sort of a man we have brought here,” said the sailor.
“He has secrets--”

“Which we will respect,” interrupted Cyrus Harding quickly. “If he has
committed any crime, he has most fearfully expiated it, and in our eyes
he is absolved.”

For two hours the stranger remained alone on the shore, evidently under
the influence of recollections which recalled all his past life--a
melancholy life doubtless--and the colonists, without losing sight of
him, did not attempt to disturb his solitude. However, after two hours,
appearing to have formed a resolution, he came to find Cyrus Harding.
His eyes were red with the tears he had shed, but he wept no longer.
His countenance expressed deep humility. He appeared anxious, timorous,
ashamed, and his eyes were constantly fixed on the ground.

“Sir,” said he to Harding, “your companions and you, are you English?”

“No,” answered the engineer, “we are Americans.”

“Ah!” said the stranger, and he murmured, “I prefer that!”

“And you, my friend?” asked the engineer.

“English,” replied he hastily.

And as if these few words had been difficult to say, he retreated to the
beach, where he walked up and down between the cascade and the mouth of
the Mercy, in a state of extreme agitation.

Then, passing one moment close to Herbert, he stopped and in a stifled
voice,--

“What month?” he asked.

“December,” replied Herbert.

“What year?”

“1866.”

“Twelve years! twelve years!” he exclaimed.

Then he left him abruptly.

Herbert reported to the colonists the questions and answers which had
been made.

“This unfortunate man,” observed Gideon Spilett, “was no longer
acquainted with either months or years!”

“Yes!” added Herbert, “and he had been twelve years already on the islet
when we found him there!”

“Twelve years!” rejoined Harding. “Ah! twelve years of solitude, after a
wicked life, perhaps, may well impair a man’s reason!”

“I am induced to think,” said Pencroft, “that this man was not wrecked
on Tabor Island, but that in consequence of some crime he was left
there.”

“You must be right, Pencroft,” replied the reporter, “and if it is so
it is not impossible that those who left him on the island may return to
fetch him some day!”

“And they will no longer find him,” said Herbert.

“But then,” added Pencroft, “they must return, and--”

“My friends,” said Cyrus Harding, “do not let us discuss this question
until we know more about it. I believe that the unhappy man has
suffered, that he has severely expiated his faults, whatever they may
have been, and that the wish to unburden himself stifles him. Do not let
us press him to tell us his history! He will tell it to us doubtless,
and when we know it, we shall see what course it will be best to follow.
He alone besides can tell us, if he has more than a hope, a certainty,
of returning some day to his country, but I doubt it!”

“And why?” asked the reporter.

“Because that, in the event of his being sure of being delivered at a
certain time, he would have waited the hour of his deliverance and would
not have thrown this document into the sea. No, it is more probable that
he was condemned to die on that islet, and that he never expected to see
his fellow-creatures again!”

“But,” observed the sailor, “there is one thing which I cannot explain.”

“What is it?”

“If this man had been left for twelve years on Tabor Island, one may
well suppose that he had been several years already in the wild state in
which we found him!”

“That is probable,” replied Cyrus Harding.

“It must then be many years since he wrote that document!”

“No doubt,” and yet the document appears to have been recently written!

“Besides, how do you know that the bottle which enclosed the document
may not have taken several years to come from Tabor Island to Lincoln
Island?”

“That is not absolutely impossible,” replied the reporter.

“Might it not have been a long time already on the coast of the island?”

“No,” answered Pencroft, “for it was still floating. We could not even
suppose that after it had stayed for any length of time on the shore, it
would have been swept off by the sea, for the south coast is all rocks,
and it would certainly have been smashed to pieces there!”

“That is true,” rejoined Cyrus Harding thoughtfully.

“And then,” continued the sailor, “if the document was several years
old, if it had been shut up in that bottle for several years, it would
have been injured by damp. Now, there is nothing of the kind, and it was
found in a perfect state of preservation.”

The sailor’s reasoning was very just, and pointed out an
incomprehensible fact, for the document appeared to have been recently
written, when the colonists found it in the bottle. Moreover, it gave
the latitude and longitude of Tabor Island correctly, which implied that
its author had a more complete knowledge of hydrography than could be
expected of a common sailor.

“There is in this, again, something unaccountable,” said the engineer,
“but we will not urge our companion to speak. When he likes, my
friends, then we shall be ready to hear him!”

During the following days the stranger did not speak a word, and did not
once leave the precincts of the plateau. He worked away, without losing
a moment, without taking a minute’s rest, but always in a retired place.
At meal times he never came to Granite House, although invited several
times to do so, but contented himself with eating a few raw vegetables.
At nightfall he did not return to the room assigned to him, but remained
under some clump of trees, or when the weather was bad crouched in some
cleft of the rocks. Thus he lived in the same manner as when he had no
other shelter than the forests of Tabor Island, and as all persuasion
to induce him to improve his life was in vain, the colonists
waited patiently. And the time was near, when, as it seemed, almost
involuntarily urged by his conscience, a terrible confession escaped
him.

On the 10th of November, about eight o’clock in the evening, as night
was coming on, the stranger appeared unexpectedly before the settlers,
who were assembled under the veranda. His eyes burned strangely, and he
had quite resumed the wild aspect of his worst days.

Cyrus Harding and his companions were astounded on seeing that, overcome
by some terrible emotion, his teeth chattered like those of a person
in a fever. What was the matter with him? Was the sight of his
fellow-creatures insupportable to him? Was he weary of this return to a
civilized mode of existence? Was he pining for his former savage
life? It appeared so, as soon he was heard to express himself in these
incoherent sentences:--

“Why am I here?.... By what right have you dragged me from my islet?....
Do you think there could be any tie between you and me?.... Do you know
who I am--what I have done--why I was there--alone? And who told
you that I was not abandoned there--that I was not condemned to die
there?.... Do you know my past?.... How do you know that I have not
stolen, murdered--that I am not a wretch--an accursed being--only fit to
live like a wild beast, far from all--speak--do you know it?”

The colonists listened without interrupting the miserable creature, from
whom these broken confessions escaped, as it were, in spite of himself.
Harding wishing to calm him, approached him, but he hastily drew back.

“No! no!” he exclaimed; “one word only--am I free?”

“You are free,” answered the engineer.

“Farewell, then!” he cried, and fled like a madman.

Neb, Pencroft, and Herbert ran also towards the edge of the wood--but
they returned alone.

“We must let him alone!” said Cyrus Harding.

“He will never come back!” exclaimed Pencroft.

“He will come back,” replied the engineer.

Many days passed; but Harding--was it a sort of
presentiment?--persisted in the fixed idea that sooner or later the
unhappy man would return.

“It is the last revolt of his wild nature,” said he, “which remorse has
touched, and which renewed solitude will terrify.”

In the meanwhile, works of all sorts were continued, as well on Prospect
Heights as at the corral, where Harding intended to build a farm. It is
unnecessary to say that the seeds collected by Herbert on Tabor
Island had been carefully sown. The plateau thus formed one immense
kitchen-garden, well laid out and carefully tended, so that the arms of
the settlers were never in want of work. There was always something to
be done. As the esculents increased in number, it became necessary to
enlarge the simple beds, which threatened to grow into regular fields
and replace the meadows. But grass abounded in other parts of the
island, and there was no fear of the onagers being obliged to go on
short allowance. It was well worth while, besides, to turn Prospect
Heights into a kitchen-garden, defended by its deep belt of creeks, and
to remove them to the meadows, which had no need of protection against
the depredations of quadrumana and quadrapeds.

On the 15th of November, the third harvest was gathered in. How
wonderfully had the field increased in extent, since eighteen months
ago, when the first grain of wheat was sown! The second crop of six
hundred thousand grains produced this time four thousand bushels, or
five hundred millions of grains!

The colony was rich in corn, for ten bushels alone were sufficient for
sowing every year to produce an ample crop for the food both of men and
beasts. The harvest was completed, and the last fortnight of the month
of November was devoted to the work of converting it into food for man.
In fact, they had corn, but not flour, and the establishment of a mill
was necessary. Cyrus Harding could have utilized the second fall which
flowed into the Mercy to establish his motive power, the first
being already occupied with moving the felting mill, but, after some
consultation, it was decided that a simple windmill should be built on
Prospect Heights. The building of this presented no more difficulty than
the building of the former, and it was moreover certain that there would
be no want of wind on the plateau, exposed as it was to the sea breezes.

“Not to mention,” said Pencroft, “that the windmill will be more lively
and will have a good effect in the landscape!”

They set to work by choosing timber for the frame and machinery of the
mill. Some large stones, found at the north of the lake, could be easily
transformed into millstones, and as to the sails, the inexhaustible case
of the balloon furnished the necessary material.

Cyrus Harding made his model, and the site of the mill was chosen a
little to the right of the poultry-yard, near the shore of the lake. The
frame was to rest on a pivot supported with strong timbers, so that it
could turn with all the machinery it contained according as the wind
required it. The work advanced rapidly. Neb and Pencroft had become
very skilful carpenters, and had nothing to do but to copy the models
provided by the engineer.

Soon a sort of cylindrical box, in shape like a pepper-pot, with a
pointed roof, rose on the spot chosen. The four frames which formed the
sails had been firmly fixed in the center beam, so as to form a certain
angle with it, and secured with iron clamps. As to the different
parts of the internal mechanism, the box destined to contain the two
millstones, the fixed stone and the moving stone, the hopper, a sort of
large square trough, wide at the top, narrow at the bottom, which would
allow the grain to fall on the stones, the oscillating spout intended to
regulate the passing of the grain, and lastly the bolting machine, which
by the operation of sifting, separates the bran from the flour,
were made without difficulty. The tools were good, and the work not
difficult, for in reality, the machinery of a mill is very simple. This
was only a question of time.

Every one had worked at the construction of the mill, and on the 1st
of December it was finished. As usual, Pencroft was delighted with his
work, and had no doubt that the apparatus was perfect.

“Now for a good wind,” said he, “and we shall grind our first harvest
splendidly!”

“A good wind, certainly,” answered the engineer, “but not too much,
Pencroft.”

“Pooh! our mill would only go the faster!”

“There is no need for it to go so very fast,” replied Cyrus Harding. “It
is known by experience that the greatest quantity of work is performed
by a mill when the number of turns made by the sails in a minute is six
times the number of feet traversed by the wind in a second. A moderate
breeze, which passes over twenty-four feet to the second, will give
sixteen turns to the sails during a minute, and there is no need of
more.”

“Exactly!” cried Herbert, “a fine breeze is blowing from the northeast,
which will soon do our business for us.”

There was no reason for delaying the inauguration of the mill, for the
settlers were eager to taste the first piece of bread in Lincoln Island.
On this morning two or three bushels of wheat were ground, and the next
day at breakfast a magnificent loaf, a little heavy perhaps, although
raised with yeast, appeared on the table at Granite House. Every one
munched away at it with a pleasure which may be easily understood.

In the meanwhile, the stranger had not reappeared. Several times Gideon
Spilett and Herbert searched the forest in the neighborhood of Granite
House, without meeting or finding any trace of him. They became
seriously uneasy at this prolonged absence. Certainly, the former
savage of Tabor island could not be perplexed how to live in the forest,
abounding in game, but was it not to be feared that he had resumed his
habits, and that this freedom would revive in him his wild instincts?
However, Harding, by a sort of presentiment, doubtless, always persisted
in saying that the fugitive would return.

“Yes, he will return!” he repeated with a confidence which his
companions could not share. “When this unfortunate man was on Tabor
Island, he knew himself to be alone! Here, he knows that fellow-men are
awaiting him! Since he has partially spoken of his past life, the poor
penitent will return to tell the whole, and from that day he will belong
to us!”

The event justified Cyrus Harding’s predictions. On the 3rd of December,
Herbert had left the plateau to go and fish on the southern bank of the
lake. He was unarmed, and till then had never taken any precautions for
defense, as dangerous animals had not shown themselves on that part of
the island.

Meanwhile, Pencroft and Neb were working in the poultry-yard, while
Harding and the reporter were occupied at the Chimneys in making soda,
the store of soap being exhausted.

Suddenly cries resounded,--

“Help! help!”

Cyrus Harding and the reporter, being at too great a distance, had not
been able to hear the shouts. Pencroft and Neb, leaving the poultry-yard
in all haste, rushed towards the lake.

But before then, the stranger, whose presence at this place no one had
suspected, crossed Creek Glycerine, which separated the plateau from the
forest, and bounded up the opposite bank.

Herbert was there face to face with a fierce jaguar, similar to the
one which had been killed on Reptile End. Suddenly surprised, he was
standing with his back against a tree, while the animal gathering itself
together was about to spring.

But the stranger, with no other weapon than a knife, rushed on the
formidable animal, who turned to meet this new adversary.

The struggle was short. The stranger possessed immense strength and
activity. He seized the jaguar’s throat with one powerful hand, holding
it as in a vise, without heeding the beast’s claws which tore his flesh,
and with the other he plunged his knife into its heart.

The jaguar fell. The stranger kicked away the body, and was about to
fly at the moment when the settlers arrived on the field of battle, but
Herbert, clinging to him, cried,--

“No, no! you shall not go!”

Harding advanced towards the stranger, who frowned when he saw him
approaching. The blood flowed from his shoulder under his torn shirt,
but he took no notice of it.

“My friend,” said Cyrus Harding, “we have just contracted a debt of
gratitude to you. To save our boy you have risked your life!”

“My life!” murmured the stranger. “What is that worth? Less than
nothing!”

“You are wounded?”

“It is no matter.”

“Will you give me your hand?”

And as Herbert endeavored to seize the hand which had just saved him,
the stranger folded his arms, his chest heaved, his look darkened, and
he appeared to wish to escape, but making a violent effort over himself,
and in an abrupt tone,--

“Who are you?” he asked, “and what do you claim to be to me?”

It was the colonists’ history which he thus demanded, and for the first
time. Perhaps this history recounted, he would tell his own.

In a few words Harding related all that had happened since their
departure from Richmond; how they had managed, and what resources they
now had at their disposal.

The stranger listened with extreme attention.

Then the engineer told who they all were, Gideon Spilett, Herbert,
Pencroft, Neb, himself, and, he added, that the greatest happiness they
had felt since their arrival in Lincoln Island was on the return of the
vessel from Tabor Island, when they had been able to include among them
a new companion.

At these words the stranger’s face flushed, his head sunk on his breast,
and confusion was depicted on his countenance.

“And now that you know us,” added Cyrus Harding, “will you give us your
hand?”

“No,” replied the stranger in a hoarse voice; “no! You are honest men!
And I--”



Chapter 17

These last words justified the colonists’ presentiment. There had been
some mournful past, perhaps expiated in the sight of men, but from which
his conscience had not yet absolved him. At any rate the guilty man felt
remorse, he repented, and his new friends would have cordially pressed
the hand which they sought; but he did not feel himself worthy to extend
it to honest men! However, after the scene with the jaguar, he did not
return to the forest, and from that day did not go beyond the enclosure
of Granite House.

What was the mystery of his life? Would the stranger one day speak of
it? Time alone could show. At any rate, it was agreed that his secret
should never be asked from him, and that they would live with him as if
they suspected nothing.

For some days their life continued as before. Cyrus Harding and Gideon
Spilett worked together, sometimes chemists, sometimes experimentalists.
The reporter never left the engineer except to hunt with Herbert, for
it would not have been prudent to allow the lad to ramble alone in the
forest; and it was very necessary to be on their guard. As to Neb
and Pencroft, one day at the stables and poultry-yard, another at the
corral, without reckoning work in Granite House, they were never in want
of employment.

The stranger worked alone, and he had resumed his usual life, never
appearing at meals, sleeping under the trees in the plateau, never
mingling with his companions. It really seemed as if the society of
those who had saved him was insupportable to him!

“But then,” observed Pencroft, “why did he entreat the help of his
fellow-creatures? Why did he throw that paper into the sea?”

“He will tell us why,” invariably replied Cyrus Harding.

“When?”

“Perhaps sooner than you think, Pencroft.”

And, indeed, the day of confession was near.

On the 10th of December, a week after his return to Granite House,
Harding saw the stranger approaching, who, in a calm voice and humble
tone, said to him: “Sir, I have a request to make of you.”

“Speak,” answered the engineer, “but first let me ask you a question.”

At these words the stranger reddened, and was on the point of
withdrawing. Cyrus Harding understood what was passing in the mind of
the guilty man, who doubtless feared that the engineer would interrogate
him on his past life.

Harding held him back.

“Comrade,” said he, “we are not only your companions but your friends. I
wish you to believe that, and now I will listen to you.”

The stranger pressed his hand over his eyes. He was seized with a
sort of trembling, and remained a few moments without being able to
articulate a word.

“Sir,” said he at last, “I have come to beg you to grant me a favor.”

“What is it?”

“You have, four or five miles from here, a corral for your domesticated
animals. These animals need to be taken care of. Will you allow me to
live there with them?”

Cyrus Harding gazed at the unfortunate man for a few moments with a
feeling of deep commiseration; then,--


“My friend,” said he, “the corral has only stables hardly fit for
animals.”

“It will be good enough for me, sir.”

“My friend,” answered Harding, “we will not constrain you in anything.
You wish to live at the corral, so be it. You will, however, be always
welcome at Granite House. But since you wish to live at the corral
we will make the necessary arrangements for your being comfortably
established there.”

“Never mind that, I shall do very well.”

“My friend,” answered Harding, who always intentionally made use of this
cordial appellation, “you must let us judge what it will be best to do
in this respect.”

“Thank you, sir,” replied the stranger as he withdrew.

The engineer then made known to his companions the proposal which had
been made to him, and it was agreed that they should build a wooden
house at the corral, which they would make as comfortable as possible.

That very day the colonists repaired to the corral with the necessary
tools, and a week had not passed before the house was ready to receive
its tenant. It was built about twenty feet from the sheds, and from
there it was easy to overlook the flock of sheep, which then numbered
more than eighty. Some furniture, a bed, table, bench, cupboard, and
chest were manufactured, and a gun, ammunition, and tools were carried
to the corral.

The stranger, however, had seen nothing of his new dwelling, and he
had allowed the settlers to work there without him, while he occupied
himself on the plateau, wishing, doubtless, to put the finishing stroke
to his work. Indeed, thanks to him, all the ground was dug up and ready
to be sowed when the time came.

It was on the 20th of December that all the arrangements at the corral
were completed. The engineer announced to the stranger that his dwelling
was ready to receive him, and the latter replied that he would go and
sleep there that very evening.

On this evening the colonists were gathered in the diningroom of Granite
House. It was then eight o’clock, the hour at which their companion was
to leave them. Not wishing to trouble him by their presence, and thus
imposing on him the necessity of saying farewells which might perhaps be
painful to him, they had left him alone and ascended to Granite House.

Now, they had been talking in the room for a few minutes, when a light
knock was heard at the door. Almost immediately the stranger entered,
and without any preamble,--

“Gentlemen,” said he, “before I leave you, it is right that you should
know my history. I will tell it you.”

These simple words profoundly impressed Cyrus Harding and his
companions. The engineer rose.

“We ask you nothing, my friend,” said he; “it is your right to be
silent.”

“It is my duty to speak.”

“Sit down, then.”

“No, I will stand.”

“We are ready to hear you,” replied Harding.

The stranger remained standing in a corner of the room, a little in the
shade. He was bareheaded, his arms folded across his chest, and it
was in this posture that in a hoarse voice, speaking like some one
who obliges himself to speak, he gave the following recital, which his
auditors did not once interrupt:--

“On the 20th of December, 1854, a steam-yacht, belonging to a Scotch
nobleman, Lord Glenarvan, anchored off Cape Bernouilli, on the western
coast of Australia, in the thirty-seventh parallel. On board this yacht
were Lord Glenarvan and his wife, a major in the English army, a French
geographer, a young girl, and a young boy. These two last were the
children of Captain Grant, whose ship, the ‘Britannia,’ had been lost,
crew and cargo, a year before. The ‘Duncan’ was commanded by Captain
John Mangles, and manned by a crew of fifteen men.

“This is the reason the yacht at this time lay off the coast of
Australia. Six months before, a bottle, enclosing a document written in
English, German, and French, had been found in the Irish Sea, and picked
up by the ‘Duncan.’ This document stated in substance that there still
existed three survivors from the wreck of the ‘Britannia,’ that these
survivors were Captain Grant and two of his men, and that they had found
refuge on some land, of which the document gave the latitude, but of
which the longitude, effaced by the sea, was no longer legible.

“This latitude was 37deg 11’ south; therefore, the longitude being
unknown, if they followed the thirty-seventh parallel over continents
and seas, they would be certain to reach the spot inhabited by Captain
Grant and his two companions. The English Admiralty having hesitated to
undertake this search, Lord Glenarvan resolved to attempt everything to
find the captain. He communicated with Mary and Robert Grant, who joined
him. The ‘Duncan’ yacht was equipped for the distant voyage, in which
the nobleman’s family and the captain’s children wished to take part,
and the ‘Duncan,’ leaving Glasgow, proceeded towards the Atlantic,
passed through the Straits of Magellan, and ascended the Pacific as
far as Patagonia, where, according to a previous interpretation of the
document, they supposed that Captain Grant was a prisoner among the
Indians.

“The ‘Duncan’ disembarked her passengers on the western coast of
Patagonia, and sailed to pick them up again on the eastern coast at
Cape Corrientes. Lord Glenarvan traversed Patagonia, following the
thirty-seventh parallel, and having found no trace of the captain, he
re-embarked on the 13th of November, so as to pursue his search through
the Ocean.

“After having unsuccessfully visited the islands of Tristan d’Acunha and
Amsterdam, situated in her course, the ‘Duncan,’ as I have said, arrived
at Cape Bernouilli, on the Australian coast, on the 20th of December,
1854.

“It was Lord Glenarvan’s intention to traverse Australia as he had
traversed America, and he disembarked. A few miles from the coast was
established a farm, belonging to an Irishman, who offered hospitality to
the travelers. Lord Glenarvan made known to the Irishman the cause
which had brought him to these parts, and asked if he knew whether a
three-masted English vessel, the ‘Britannia,’ had been lost less than
two years before on the west coast of Australia.

“The Irishman had never heard of this wreck, but, to the great surprise
of the bystanders, one of his servants came forward and said,--

“‘My lord, praise and thank God! If Captain Grant is still living, he is
living on the Australian shores.’

“‘Who are you?’ asked Lord Glenarvan.

“‘A Scotchman like yourself, my lord,’ replied the man; ‘I am one of
Captain Grant’s crew--one of the castaways of the “Britannia.’”

“This man was called Ayrton. He was, in fact, the boatswain’s mate of
the ‘Britannia,’ as his papers showed. But, separated from Captain Grant
at the moment when the ship struck upon the rocks, he had till then
believed that the captain with all his crew had perished, and that he,
Ayrton, was the sole survivor of the ‘Britannia.’

“‘Only,’ he added, ‘it was not on the west coast, but on the east coast
of Australia that the vessel was lost, and if Captain Grant is still
living, as his document indicates, he is a prisoner among the natives,
and it is on the other coast that he must be looked for.’

“This man spoke in a frank voice and with a confident look; his words
could not be doubted. The Irishman, in whose service he had been for
more than a year, answered for his trustworthiness. Lord Glenarvan,
therefore, believed in the fidelity of this man and, by his advice,
resolved to cross Australia, following the thirty-seventh parallel. Lord
Glenarvan, his wife, the two children, the major, the Frenchman, Captain
Mangles, and a few sailors composed the little band under the command
of Ayrton, while the ‘Duncan,’ under charge of the mate, Tom Austin,
proceeded to Melbourne, there to await Lord Glenarvan’s instructions.

“They set out on the 23rd of December, 1854.

“It is time to say that Ayrton was a traitor. He was, indeed, the
boatswain’s mate of the ‘Britannia,’ but, after some dispute with his
captain, he endeavored to incite the crew to mutiny and seize the ship,
and Captain Grant had landed him, on the 8th of April, 1852, on the
west coast of Australia, and then sailed, leaving him there, as was only
just.

“Therefore this wretched man knew nothing of the wreck of the
‘Britannia’; he had just heard of it from Glenarvan’s account. Since his
abandonment, he had become, under the name of Ben Joyce, the leader of
the escaped convicts; and if he boldly maintained that the wreck had
taken place on the east coast, and led Lord Glenarvan to proceed in that
direction, it was that he hoped to separate him from his ship, seize the
‘Duncan,’ and make the yacht a pirate in the Pacific.”

Here the stranger stopped for a moment. His voice trembled, but he
continued,--

“The expedition set out and proceeded across Australia. It was
inevitably unfortunate, since Ayrton, or Ben Joyce, as he may be
called, guided it, sometimes preceded, sometimes followed by his band of
convicts, who had been told what they had to do.

“Meanwhile, the ‘Duncan’ had been sent to Melbourne for repairs. It was
necessary, then, to get Lord Glenarvan to order her to leave Melbourne
and go to the east coast of Australia, where it would be easy to seize
her. After having led the expedition near enough to the coast, in the
midst of vast forests with no resources, Ayrton obtained a letter, which
he was charged to carry to the mate of the ‘Duncan’--a letter which
ordered the yacht to repair immediately to the east coast, to Twofold
Bay, that is to say a few days’ journey from the place where the
expedition had stopped. It was there that Ayrton had agreed to meet his
accomplices, and two days after gaining possession of the letter, he
arrived at Melbourne.

“So far the villain had succeeded in his wicked design. He would be able
to take the ‘Duncan’ into Twofold Bay, where it would be easy for the
convicts to seize her, and her crew massacred, Ben Joyce would become
master of the seas. But it pleased God to prevent the accomplishment of
these terrible projects.

“Ayrton, arrived at Melbourne, delivered the letter to the mate, Tom
Austin, who read it and immediately set sail, but judge of Ayrton’s rage
and disappointment, when the next day he found that the mate was taking
the vessel, not to the east coast of Australia, to Twofold Bay, but to
the east coast of New Zealand. He wished to stop him, but Austin showed
him the letter!... And indeed, by a providential error of the French
geographer, who had written the letter, the east coast of New Zealand
was mentioned as the place of destination.

“All Ayrton’s plans were frustrated! He became outrageous. They put him
in irons. He was then taken to the coast of New Zealand, not knowing
what would become of his accomplices, or what would become of Lord
Glenarvan.

“The ‘Duncan’ cruised about on this coast until the 3rd of March. On
that day Ayrton heard the report of guns. The guns on the ‘Duncan’ were
being fired, and soon Lord Glenarvan and his companions came on board.

“This is what had happened.

“After a thousand hardships, a thousand dangers, Lord Glenarvan had
accomplished his journey, and arrived on the east coast of Australia, at
Twofold Bay. ‘No “Duncan!”’ He telegraphed to Melbourne. They answered,
“Duncan” sailed on the 18th instant. Destination unknown.’

“Lord Glenarvan could only arrive at one conclusion; that his honest
yacht had fallen into the hands of Ben Joyce, and had become a pirate
vessel!

“However, Lord Glenarvan would not give up. He was a bold and generous
man. He embarked in a merchant vessel, sailed to the west coast of New
Zealand, traversed it along the thirty-seventh parallel, without
finding any trace of Captain Grant; but on the other side, to his
great surprise, and by the will of Heaven, he found the ‘Duncan,’ under
command of the mate, who had been waiting for him for five weeks!

“This was on the 3rd of March, 1855. Lord Glenarvan was now on board the
‘Duncan,’ but Ayrton was there also. He appeared before the nobleman,
who wished to extract from him all that the villain knew about Captain
Grant. Ayrton refused to speak. Lord Glenarvan then told him, that at
the first port they put into, he would be delivered up to the English
authorities. Ayrton remained mute.

“The ‘Duncan’ continued her voyage along the thirty-seventh parallel.
In the meanwhile, Lady Glenarvan undertook to vanquish the resistance of
the ruffian.

“At last, her influence prevailed, and Ayrton, in exchange for what he
could tell, proposed that Lord Glenarvan should leave him on some island
in the Pacific, instead of giving him up to the English authorities.
Lord Glenarvan, resolving to do anything to obtain information about
Captain Grant, consented.

“Ayrton then related all his life, and it was certain that he knew
nothing from the day on which Captain Grant had landed him on the
Australian coast.

“Nevertheless, Lord Glenarvan kept the promise which he had given. The
‘Duncan’ continued her voyage and arrived at Tabor Island. It was there
that Ayrton was to be landed, and it was there also that, by a
veritable miracle, they found Captain Grant and two men, exactly on the
thirty-seventh parallel.

“The convict, then, went to take their place on this desert islet, and
at the moment he left the yacht these words were pronounced by Lord
Glenarvan:--

“‘Here, Ayrton, you will be far from any land, and without any possible
communication with your fellow-creatures. You cannot escape from this
islet on which the ‘Duncan’ leaves you. You will be alone, under the eye
of a God who reads the depths of the heart, but you will be neither
lost nor forgotten, as was Captain Grant. Unworthy as you are to be
remembered by men, men will remember you. I know where you are Ayrton,
and I know where to find you. I will never forget it!

“And the ‘Duncan,’ making sail, soon disappeared. This was 18th of
March, 1855.

     (The events which have just been briefly related are taken
     from a work which some of our readers have no doubt read,
     and which is entitled, “Captain Grant’s children.” They will
     remark on this occasion, as well as later, some discrepancy
     in the dates; but later again, they will understand why the
     real dates were not at first given.)

“Ayrton was alone, but he had no want of either ammunition, weapons,
tools, or seeds.

“At his, the convict’s disposal, was the house built by honest Captain
Grant. He had only to live and expiate in solitude the crimes which he
had committed.

“Gentlemen, he repented, he was ashamed of his crimes and was very
miserable! He said to himself, that if men came some day to take
him from that islet, he must be worthy to return among them! How he
suffered, that wretched man! How he labored to recover himself by work!
How he prayed to be reformed by prayer! For two years, three years, this
went on, but Ayrton, humbled by solitude, always looking for some ship
to appear on the horizon, asking himself if the time of expiation would
soon be complete, suffered as none other suffered! Oh! how dreadful was
this solitude, to a heart tormented by remorse!

“But doubtless Heaven had not sufficiently punished this unhappy man,
for he felt that he was gradually becoming a savage! He felt that
brutishness was gradually gaining on him!

“He could not say if it was after two or three years of solitude, but at
last he became the miserable creature you found!

“I have no need to tell you, gentlemen, that Ayrton, Ben Joyce, and I,
are the same.”

Cyrus Harding and his companions rose at the end of this account. It
is impossible to say how much they were moved! What misery, grief, and
despair lay revealed before them!

“Ayrton,” said Harding, rising, “you have been a great criminal, but
Heaven must certainly think that you have expiated your crimes! That
has been proved by your having been brought again among your
fellow-creatures. Ayrton, you are forgiven! And now you will be our
companion?”

Ayrton drew back.

“Here is my hand!” said the engineer.

Ayrton grasped the hand which Harding extended to him, and great tears
fell from his eyes.

“Will you live with us?” asked Cyrus Harding.

“Captain Harding, leave me some time longer,” replied Ayrton, “leave me
alone in the hut in the corral!”

“As you like, Ayrton,” answered Cyrus Harding. Ayrton was going to
withdraw, when the engineer addressed one more question to him:--

“One word more, my friend. Since it was your intention to live alone,
why did you throw into the sea the document which put us on your track?”

“A document?” repeated Ayrton, who did not appear to know what he meant.

“Yes, the document which we found enclosed in a bottle, giving us the
exact position of Tabor Island!”

Ayrton passed his hand over his brow, then after having thought, “I
never threw any document into the sea!” he answered.

“Never?” exclaimed Pencroft.

“Never!”

And Ayrton, bowing, reached the door and departed.



Chapter 18

“Poor man!” said Herbert, who had rushed to the door, but returned,
having seen Ayrton slide down the rope on the lift and disappear in the
darkness.

“He will come back,” said Cyrus Harding.

“Come, now, captain,” exclaimed Pencroft, “what does that mean? What!
wasn’t it Ayrton who threw that bottle into the sea? Who was it then?”

Certainly, if ever a question was necessary to be made, it was that one!

“It was he,” answered Neb, “only the unhappy man was half-mad.”

“Yes!” said Herbert, “and he was no longer conscious of what he was
doing.”

“It can only be explained in that way, my friends,” replied Harding
quickly, “and I understand now how Ayrton was able to point out exactly
the situation of Tabor Island, since the events which had preceded his
being left on the island had made it known to him.”

“However,” observed Pencroft, “if he was not yet a brute when he wrote
that document, and if he threw it into the sea seven or eight years ago,
how is it that the paper has not been injured by damp?”

“That proves,” answered Cyrus Harding, “that Ayrton was deprived of
intelligence at a more recent time than he thinks.”

“Of course it must be so,” replied Pencroft, “without that the fact
would be unaccountable.”

“Unaccountable indeed,” answered the engineer, who did not appear
desirous to prolong the conversation.

“But has Ayrton told the truth?” asked the sailor.

“Yes,” replied the reporter. “The story which he has told is true in
every point. I remember quite well the account in the newspapers of the
yacht expedition undertaken by Lord Glenarvan, and its result.”

“Ayrton has told the truth,” added Harding. “Do not doubt it, Pencroft,
for it was painful to him. People tell the truth when they accuse
themselves like that!”

The next day--the 21st of December--the colonists descended to the
beach, and having climbed the plateau they found nothing of Ayrton. He
had reached his house in the corral during the night and the settlers
judged it best not to agitate him by their presence. Time would
doubtless perform what sympathy had been unable to accomplish.

Herbert, Pencroft, and Neb resumed their ordinary occupations. On this
day the same work brought Harding and the reporter to the workshop at
the Chimneys.

“Do you know, my dear Cyrus,” said Gideon Spilett, “that the explanation
you gave yesterday on the subject of the bottle has not satisfied me at
all! How can it be supposed that the unfortunate man was able to write
that document and throw the bottle into the sea without having the
slightest recollection of it?”

“Nor was it he who threw it in, my dear Spilett.”

“You think then--”

“I think nothing, I know nothing!” interrupted Cyrus Harding. “I am
content to rank this incident among those which I have not been able to
explain to this day!”

“Indeed, Cyrus,” said Spilett, “these things are incredible! Your
rescue, the case stranded on the sand, Top’s adventure, and lastly this
bottle... Shall we never have the answer to these enigmas?”

“Yes!” replied the engineer quickly, “yes, even if I have to penetrate
into the bowels of this island!”

“Chance will perhaps give us the key to this mystery!”

“Chance! Spilett! I do not believe in chance, any more than I believe in
mysteries in this world. There is a reason for everything unaccountable
which has happened here, and that reason I shall discover. But in the
meantime we must work and observe.”

The month of January arrived. The year 1867 commenced. The summer
occupations were assiduously continued. During the days which followed,
Herbert and Spilett having gone in the direction of the corral,
ascertained that Ayrton had taken possession of the habitation which
had been prepared for him. He busied himself with the numerous flock
confided to his care, and spared his companions the trouble of coming
every two or three days to visit the corral. Nevertheless, in order not
to leave Ayrton in solitude for too long a time, the settlers often paid
him a visit.

It was not unimportant either, in consequence of some suspicions
entertained by the engineer and Gideon Spilett, that this part of
the island should be subject to a surveillance of some sort, and that
Ayrton, if any incident occurred unexpectedly, should not neglect to
inform the inhabitants of Granite House of it.

Nevertheless it might happen that something would occur which it would
be necessary to bring rapidly to the engineer’s knowledge. Independently
of facts bearing on the mystery of Lincoln Island, many others
might happen, which would call for the prompt interference of the
colonists,--such as the sighting of a vessel, a wreck on the western
coast, the possible arrival of pirates, etc.

Therefore Cyrus Harding resolved to put the corral in instantaneous
communication with Granite House.

It was on the 10th of January that he made known his project to his
companions.

“Why! how are you going to manage that, captain?” asked Pencroft. “Do
you by chance happen to think of establishing a telegraph?”

“Exactly so,” answered the engineer.

“Electric?” cried Herbert.

“Electric,” replied Cyrus Harding. “We have all the necessary materials
for making a battery, and the most difficult thing will be to stretch
the wires, but by means of a drawplate I think we shall manage it.”

“Well, after that,” returned the sailor, “I shall never despair of
seeing ourselves some day rolling along on a railway!”

They then set to work, beginning with the most difficult thing, for, if
they failed in that, it would be useless to manufacture the battery and
other accessories.

The iron of Lincoln Island, as has been said, was of excellent quality,
and consequently very fit for being drawn out. Harding commenced by
manufacturing a drawplate, that is to say, a plate of steel, pierced
with conical holes of different sizes, which would successively bring
the wire to the wished-for tenacity. This piece of steel, after having
been tempered, was fixed in as firm a way as possible in a solid
framework planted in the ground, only a few feet from the great fall,
the motive power of which the engineer intended to utilize. In fact as
the fulling-mill was there, although not then in use, its beam moved
with extreme power would serve to stretch out the wire by rolling it
round itself. It was a delicate operation, and required much care. The
iron, prepared previously in long thin rods, the ends of which were
sharpened with the file, having been introduced into the largest hole of
the drawplate, was drawn out by the beam which wound it round itself,
to a length of twenty-five or thirty feet, then unrolled, and the same
operation was performed successively through the holes of a less size.
Finally, the engineer obtained wires from forty to fifty feet long,
which could be easily fastened together and stretched over the distance
of five miles, which separated the corral from the bounds of Granite
House.

It did not take more than a few days to perform this work, and indeed
as soon as the machine had been commenced, Cyrus Harding left his
companions to follow the trade of wiredrawers, and occupied himself with
manufacturing his battery.

It was necessary to obtain a battery with a constant current. It is
known that the elements of modern batteries are generally composed of
retort coal, zinc, and copper. Copper was absolutely wanting to the
engineer, who, notwithstanding all his researches, had never been able
to find any trace of it in Lincoln Island, and was therefore obliged to
do without it. Retort coal, that is to say, the hard graphite which
is found in the retorts of gas manufactories, after the coal has
been dehydrogenized, could have been obtained, but it would have been
necessary to establish a special apparatus, involving great labor. As
to zinc, it may be remembered that the case found at Flotsam Point was
lined with this metal, which could not be better utilized than for this
purpose.

Cyrus Harding, after mature consideration, decided to manufacture a
very simple battery, resembling as nearly as possible that invented
by Becquerel in 1820, and in which zinc only is employed. The other
substances, azotic acid and potash, were all at his disposal.

The way in which the battery was composed was as follows, and the
results were to be attained by the reaction of acid and potash on each
other. A number of glass bottles were made and filled with azotic acid.
The engineer corked them by means of a stopper through which passed a
glass tube, bored at its lower extremity, and intended to be plunged
into the acid by means of a clay stopper secured by a rag. Into this
tube, through its upper extremity, he poured a solution of potash,
previously obtained by burning and reducing to ashes various plants,
and in this way the acid and potash could act on each other through the
clay.

Cyrus Harding then took two slips of zinc, one of which was plunged
into azotic acid, the other into a solution of potash. A current was
immediately produced, which was transmitted from the slip of zinc in the
bottle to that in the tube, and the two slips having been connected by a
metallic wire the slip in the tube became the positive pole, and that in
the bottle the negative pole of the apparatus. Each bottle, therefore,
produced as many currents as united would be sufficient to produce all
the phenomena of the electric telegraph. Such was the ingenious and very
simple apparatus constructed by Cyrus Harding, an apparatus which would
allow them to establish a telegraphic communication between Granite
House and the corral.

On the 6th of February was commenced the planting along the road to
the corral, of posts furnished with glass insulators, and intended to
support the wire. A few days after, the wire was extended, ready to
produce the electric current at a rate of twenty thousand miles a
second.

Two batteries had been manufactured, one for Granite House, the other
for the corral; for if it was necessary the corral should be able to
communicate with Granite House it might also be useful that Granite
House should be able to communicate with the corral.

As to the receiver and manipulator, they were very simple. At the two
stations the wire was wound round a magnet, that is to say, round a
piece of soft iron surrounded with a wire. The communication was thus
established between the two poles; the current, starting from the
positive pole, traversed the wire, passed through the magnet which was
temporarily magnetized, and returned through the earth to the negative
pole. If the current was interrupted, the magnet immediately became
unmagnetized. It was sufficient to place a plate of soft iron before the
magnet, which, attracted during the passage of the current, would fall
back when the current was interrupted. This movement of the plate thus
obtained, Harding could easily fasten to it a needle arranged on a dial,
bearing the letters of the alphabet, and in this way communicate from
one station to the other.

All was completely arranged by the 12th of February. On this day,
Harding, having sent the current through the wire, asked if all
was going on well at the corral, and received in a few moments a
satisfactory reply from Ayrton. Pencroft was wild with joy, and every
morning and evening he sent a telegram to the corral, which always
received an answer.

This mode of communication presented two very real advantages: firstly,
because it enabled them to ascertain that Ayrton was at the corral; and
secondly, that he was thus not left completely isolated. Besides, Cyrus
Harding never allowed a week to pass without going to see him, and
Ayrton came from time to time to Granite House, where he always found a
cordial welcome.

The fine season passed away in the midst of the usual work. The
resources of the colony, particularly in vegetables and corn, increased
from day to day, and the plants brought from Tabor Island had succeeded
perfectly.

The plateau of Prospect Heights presented an encouraging aspect. The
fourth harvest had been admirable and it may be supposed that no one
thought of counting whether the four hundred thousand millions of grains
duly appeared in the crop. However, Pencroft had thought of doing so,
but Cyrus Harding having told him that even if he managed to count three
hundred grains a minute, or nine thousand an hour, it would take him
nearly five thousand five-hundred years to finish his task, the honest
sailor considered it best to give up the idea.

The weather was splendid, the temperature very warm in the day time, but
in the evening the sea-breezes tempered the heat of the atmosphere and
procured cool nights for the inhabitants of Granite House. There were,
however, a few storms, which, although they were not of long duration,
swept over Lincoln Island with extraordinary fury. The lightning blazed
and the thunder continued to roll for some hours.

At this period the little colony was extremely prosperous.

The tenants of the poultry-yard swarmed, and they lived on the surplus,
but it became necessary to reduce the population to a more moderate
number. The pigs had already produced young, and it may be understood
that their care for these animals absorbed a great part of Neb and
Pencroft’s time. The onagers, who had two pretty colts, were most often
mounted by Gideon Spilett and Herbert, who had become an excellent rider
under the reporter’s instruction, and they also harnessed them to the
cart either for carrying wood and coal to Granite House, or different
mineral productions required by the engineer.

Several expeditions were made about this time into the depths of the Far
West Forests. The explorers could venture there without having anything
to fear from the heat, for the sun’s rays scarcely penetrated through
the thick foliage spreading above their heads. They thus visited all the
left bank of the Mercy, along which ran the road from the corral to the
mouth of Falls River.

But in these excursions the settlers took care to be well armed, for
they met with savage wild boars, with which they often had a tussle.
They also, during this season, made fierce war against the jaguars.
Gideon Spilett had vowed a special hatred against them, and his pupil
Herbert seconded him well. Armed as they were, they no longer feared
to meet one of those beasts. Herbert’s courage was superb, and the
reporter’s sang-froid astonishing. Already twenty magnificent skins
ornamented the dining-room of Granite House, and if this continued, the
jaguar race would soon be extinct in the island, the object aimed at by
the hunters.

The engineer sometimes took part in the expeditions made to the unknown
parts of the island, which he surveyed with great attention. It was for
other traces than those of animals that he searched the thickets of the
vast forest, but nothing suspicious ever appeared. Neither Top nor Jup,
who accompanied him, ever betrayed by their behavior that there was
anything strange there, and yet more than once again the dog barked at
the mouth of the well, which the engineer had before explored without
result.

At this time Gideon Spilett, aided by Herbert, took several views of
the most picturesque parts of the island, by means of the photographic
apparatus found in the cases, and of which they had not as yet made any
use.

This apparatus, provided with a powerful object-glass, was very
complete. Substances necessary for the photographic reproduction,
collodion for preparing the glass plate, nitrate of silver to render it
sensitive, hyposulfate of soda to fix the prints obtained, chloride of
ammonium in which to soak the paper destined to give the positive proof,
acetate of soda and chloride of gold in which to immerse the paper,
nothing was wanting. Even the papers were there, all prepared,
and before laying in the printing-frame upon the negatives, it was
sufficient to soak them for a few minutes in the solution of nitrate of
silver.

The reporter and his assistant became in a short time very skilful
operators, and they obtained fine views of the country, such as the
island, taken from Prospect Heights with Mount Franklin in the distance,
the mouth of the Mercy, so picturesquely framed in high rocks, the glade
and the corral, with the spurs of the mountain in the background, the
curious development of Claw Cape, Flotsam Point, etc.

Nor did the photographers forget to take the portraits of all the
inhabitants of the island, leaving out no one.

“It multiplies us,” said Pencroft.

And the sailor was enchanted to see his own countenance, faithfully
reproduced, ornamenting the walls of Granite House, and he stopped
as willingly before this exhibition as he would have done before the
richest shop-windows in Broadway.

But it must be acknowledged that the most successful portrait was
incontestably that of Master Jup. Master Jup had sat with a gravity not
to be described, and his portrait was lifelike!

“He looks as if he was just going to grin!” exclaimed Pencroft.

And if Master Jup had not been satisfied, he would have been very
difficult to please; but he was quite contented and contemplated his own
countenance with a sentimental air which expressed some small amount of
conceit.

The summer heat ended with the month of March. The weather was sometimes
rainy, but still warm. The month of March, which corresponds to the
September of northern latitudes, was not so fine as might have been
hoped. Perhaps it announced an early and rigorous winter.

It might have been supposed one morning--the 21 st--that the first snow
had already made its appearance. In fact Herbert looking early from one
of the windows of Granite House, exclaimed,--

“Hallo! the islet is covered with snow!”

“Snow at this time?” answered the reporter, joining the boy.

Their companions were soon beside them, but could only ascertain one
thing, that not only the islet but all the beach below Granite House was
covered with one uniform sheet of white.

“It must be snow!” said Pencroft.

“Or rather it’s very like it!” replied Neb.

“But the thermometer marks fifty-eight degrees!” observed Gideon
Spilett.

Cyrus Harding gazed at the sheet of white without saying anything, for
he really did not know how to explain this phenomenon, at this time of
year and in such a temperature.

“By Jove!” exclaimed Pencroft, “all our plants will be frozen!”

And the sailor was about to descend, when he was preceded by the nimble
Jup, who slid down to the sand.

But the orang had not touched the ground, when the snowy sheet arose and
dispersed in the air in such innumerable flakes that the light of the
sun was obscured for some minutes.

“Birds!” cried Herbert.

They were indeed swarms of sea-birds, with dazzling white plumage.
They had perched by thousands on the islet and on the shore, and they
disappeared in the distance, leaving the colonists amazed as if they
had been present at some transformation scene, in which summer succeeded
winter at the touch of a fairy’s wand. Unfortunately the change had been
so sudden, that neither the reporter nor the lad had been able to bring
down one of these birds, of which they could not recognize the species.

A few days after came the 26th of March, the day on which, two years
before, the castaways from the air had been thrown upon Lincoln Island.



Chapter 19

Two years already! and for two years the colonists had had no
communication with their fellow-creatures! They were without news from
the civilized world, lost on this island, as completely as if they had
been on the most minute star of the celestial hemisphere!

What was now happening in their country? The picture of their native
land was always before their eyes, the land torn by civil war at the
time they left it, and which the Southern rebellion was perhaps still
staining with blood! It was a great sorrow to them, and they often
talked together of these things, without ever doubting however that
the cause of the North must triumph, for the honor of the American
Confederation.

During these two years not a vessel had passed in sight of the island;
or, at least, not a sail had been seen. It was evident that Lincoln
Island was out of the usual track, and also that it was unknown,--as was
besides proved by the maps,--for though there was no port, vessels might
have visited it for the purpose of renewing their store of water. But
the surrounding ocean was deserted as far as the eye could reach, and
the colonists must rely on themselves for regaining their native land.

However, one chance of rescue existed, and this chance was discussed
one day on the first week of April, when the colonists were gathered
together in the dining-room of Granite House.

They had been talking of America, of their native country, which they
had so little hope of ever seeing again.

“Decidedly we have only one way,” said Spilett, “one single way for
leaving Lincoln Island, and that is, to build a vessel large enough to
sail several hundred miles. It appears to me, that when one has built a
boat it is just as easy to build a ship!”

“And in which we might go to the Pomoutous,” added Herbert, “just as
easily as we went to Tabor Island.”

“I do not say no,” replied Pencroft, who had always the casting vote
in maritime questions; “I do not say no, although it is not exactly the
same thing to make a long as a short voyage! If our little craft had
been caught in any heavy gale of wind during the voyage to Tabor Island,
we should have known that land was at no great distance either way; but
twelve hundred miles is a pretty long way, and the nearest land is at
least that distance!”

“Would you not, in that case, Pencroft, attempt the adventure?” asked
the reporter.

“I will attempt anything that is desired, Mr. Spilett,” answered the
sailor, “and you know well that I am not a man to flinch!”

“Remember, besides, that we number another sailor amongst us now,”
 remarked Neb.

“Who is that?” asked Pencroft.

“Ayrton.”

“If he will consent to come,” said Pencroft.

“Nonsense!” returned the reporter; “do you think that if Lord
Glenarvan’s yacht had appeared at Tabor Island, while he was still
living there, Ayrton would have refused to depart?”

“You forget, my friends,” then said Cyrus Harding, “that Ayrton was not
in possession of his reason during the last years of his stay there. But
that is not the question. The point is to know if we may count among
our chances of being rescued, the return of the Scotch vessel. Now,
Lord Glenarvan promised Ayrton that he would return to take him off from
Tabor Island when he considered that his crimes were expiated, and I
believe that he will return.”

“Yes,” said the reporter, “and I will add that he will return soon, for
it is twelve years since Ayrton was abandoned.”

“Well!” answered Pencroft, “I agree with you that the nobleman will
return, and soon too. But where will he touch? At Tabor Island, and not
at Lincoln Island.”

“That is the more certain,” replied Herbert, “as Lincoln Island is not
even marked on the map.”

“Therefore, my friends,” said the engineer, “we ought to take the
necessary precautions for making our presence and that of Ayrton on
Lincoln Island known at Tabor Island.”

“Certainly,” answered the reporter, “and nothing is easier than to place
in the hut, which was Captain Grant’s and Ayrton’s dwelling, a notice
which Lord Glenarvan and his crew cannot help finding, giving the
position of our island.”

“It is a pity,” remarked the sailor, “that we forgot to take that
precaution on our first visit to Tabor Island.”

“And why should we have done it?” asked Herbert. “At that time we did
not know Ayrton’s history; we did not know that any one was likely to
come some day to fetch him, and when we did know his history, the season
was too advanced to allow us to return then to Tabor Island.”

“Yes,” replied Harding, “it was too late, and we must put off the voyage
until next spring.”

“But suppose the Scotch yacht comes before that,” said Pencroft.

“That is not probable,” replied the engineer, “for Lord Glenarvan would
not choose the winter season to venture into these seas. Either he has
already returned to Tabor Island, since Ayrton has been with us, that is
to say, during the last five months and has left again; or he will not
come till later, and it will be time enough in the first fine October
days to go to Tabor Island, and leave a notice there.”

“We must allow,” said Neb, “that it will be very unfortunate if the
‘Duncan’ has returned to these parts only a few months ago!”

“I hope that it is not so,” replied Cyrus Harding, “and that Heaven has
not deprived us of the best chance which remains to us.”

“I think,” observed the reporter, “that at any rate we shall know what
we have to depend on when we have been to Tabor Island, for if the yacht
has returned there, they will necessarily have left some traces of their
visit.”

“That is evident,” answered the engineer. “So then, my friends, since
we have this chance of returning to our country, we must wait patiently,
and if it is taken from us we shall see what will be best to do.”

“At any rate,” remarked Pencroft, “it is well understood that if we
do leave Lincoln Island, it will not be because we were uncomfortable
there!”

“No, Pencroft,” replied the engineer, “it will be because we are far
from all that a man holds dearest in the world, his family, his friends,
his native land!”

Matters being thus decided, the building of a vessel large enough to
sail either to the Archipelagoes in the north, or to New Zealand in
the west, was no longer talked of, and they busied themselves in their
accustomed occupations, with a view to wintering a third time in Granite
House.

However, it was agreed that before the stormy weather came on, their
little vessel should be employed in making a voyage round the island.
A complete survey of the coast had not yet been made, and the colonists
had but an imperfect idea of the shore to the west and north, from the
mouth of Falls River to the Mandible Capes, as well as of the narrow bay
between them, which opened like a shark’s jaws.

The plan of this excursion was proposed by Pencroft, and Cyrus Harding
fully acquiesced in it, for he himself wished to see this part of his
domain.

The weather was variable, but the barometer did not fluctuate by sudden
movements, and they could therefore count on tolerable weather. However,
during the first week of April, after a sudden barometrical fall, a
renewed rise was marked by a heavy gale of wind, lasting five or six
days; then the needle of the instrument remained stationary at a
height of twenty-nine inches and nine-tenths, and the weather appeared
propitious for an excursion.

The departure was fixed for the 16th of April, and the “Bonadventure,”
 anchored in Port Balloon, was provisioned for a voyage which might be of
some duration.

Cyrus Harding informed Ayrton of the projected expedition, and proposed
that he should take part in it, but Ayrton preferring to remain on
shore, it was decided that he should come to Granite House during the
absence of his companions. Master Jup was ordered to keep him company,
and made no remonstrance.

On the morning of the 16th of April all the colonists, including Top,
embarked. A fine breeze blew from the south-west, and the “Bonadventure”
 tacked on leaving Port Balloon so as to reach Reptile End. Of the ninety
miles which the perimeter of the island measured, twenty included the
south coast between the port and the promontory. The wind being right
ahead it was necessary to hug the shore.

It took the whole day to reach the promontory, for the vessel on leaving
port had only two hours of ebb tide and had therefore to make way for
six hours against the flood. It was nightfall before the promontory was
doubled.

The sailor then proposed to the engineer that they should continue
sailing slowly with two reefs in the sail. But Harding preferred to
anchor a few cable-lengths from the shore, so as to survey that part of
the coast during the day. It was agreed also that as they were anxious
for a minute exploration of the coast they should not sail during the
night, but would always, when the weather permitted it, be at anchor
near the shore.

The night was passed under the promontory, and the wind having fallen,
nothing disturbed the silence. The passengers, with the exception of the
sailor, scarcely slept as well on board the “Bonadventure” as they would
have done in their rooms at Granite House, but they did sleep however.
Pencroft set sail at break of day, and by going on the larboard tack
they could keep close to the shore.

The colonists knew this beautiful wooded coast, since they had already
explored it on foot, and yet it again excited their admiration. They
coasted along as close in as possible, so as to notice everything,
avoiding always the trunks of trees which floated here and there.
Several times also they anchored, and Gideon Spilett took photographs of
the superb scenery.

About noon the “Bonadventure” arrived at the mouth of Falls River.
Beyond, on the left bank, a few scattered trees appeared, and three
miles further even these dwindled into solitary groups among the western
spurs of the mountain, whose arid ridge sloped down to the shore.

What a contrast between the northern and southern part of the coast!
In proportion as one was woody and fertile so was the other rugged and
barren! It might have been designated as one of those iron coasts, as
they are called in some countries, and its wild confusion appeared to
indicate that a sudden crystallization had been produced in the yet
liquid basalt of some distant geological sea. These stupendous masses
would have terrified the settlers if they had been cast at first on
this part of the island! They had not been able to perceive the sinister
aspect of this shore from the summit of Mount Franklin, for they
overlooked it from too great a height, but viewed from the sea it
presented a wild appearance which could not perhaps be equaled in any
corner of the globe.

The “Bonadventure” sailed along this coast for the distance of half a
mile. It was easy to see that it was composed of blocks of all sizes,
from twenty to three hundred feet in height, and of all shapes, round
like towers, prismatic like steeples, pyramidal like obelisks, conical
like factory chimneys. An iceberg of the Polar seas could not have been
more capricious in its terrible sublimity! Here, bridges were thrown
from one rock to another; there, arches like those of a wave, into the
depths of which the eye could not penetrate; in one place, large vaulted
excavations presented a monumental aspect; in another, a crowd of
columns, spires, and arches, such as no Gothic cathedral ever
possessed. Every caprice of nature, still more varied than those of the
imagination, appeared on this grand coast, which extended over a length
of eight or nine miles.

Cyrus Harding and his companions gazed, with a feeling of surprise
bordering on stupefaction. But, although they remained silent, Top,
not being troubled with feelings of this sort, uttered barks which were
repeated by the thousand echoes of the basaltic cliff. The engineer
even observed that these barks had something strange in them, like those
which the dog had uttered at the mouth of the well in Granite House.

“Let us go close in,” said he.

And the “Bonadventure” sailed as near as possible to the rocky shore.
Perhaps some cave, which it would be advisable to explore, existed
there? But Harding saw nothing, not a cavern, not a cleft which could
serve as a retreat to any being whatever, for the foot of the cliff was
washed by the surf. Soon Top’s barks ceased, and the vessel continued
her course at a few cables-length from the coast.

In the northwest part of the island the shore became again flat and
sandy. A few trees here and there rose above a low, marshy ground, which
the colonists had already surveyed, and in violent contrast to the other
desert shore, life was again manifested by the presence of myriads of
water-fowl. That evening the “Bonadventure” anchored in a small bay
to the north of the island, near the land, such was the depth of water
there. The night passed quietly, for the breeze died away with the last
light of day, and only rose again with the first streaks of dawn.

As it was easy to land, the usual hunters of the colony, that is to say,
Herbert and Gideon Spilett, went for a ramble of two hours or so, and
returned with several strings of wild duck and snipe. Top had
done wonders, and not a bird had been lost, thanks to his zeal and
cleverness.

At eight o’clock in the morning the “Bonadventure” set sail, and ran
rapidly towards North Mandible Cape, for the wind was right astern and
freshening rapidly.

“However,” observed Pencroft, “I should not be surprised if a gale came
up from the west. Yesterday the sun set in a very red-looking horizon,
and now, this morning, those mares-tails don’t forbode anything good.”

These mares-tails are cirrus clouds, scattered in the zenith, their
height from the sea being less than five thousand feet. They look like
light pieces of cotton wool, and their presence usually announces some
sudden change in the weather.

“Well,” said Harding, “let us carry as much sail as possible, and run
for shelter into Shark Gulf. I think that the ‘Bonadventure’ will be
safe there.”

“Perfectly,” replied Pencroft, “and besides, the north coast is merely
sand, very uninteresting to look at.”

“I shall not be sorry,” resumed the engineer, “to pass not only to-night
but to-morrow in that bay, which is worth being carefully explored.”

“I think that we shall be obliged to do so, whether we like it or not,”
 answered Pencroft, “for the sky looks very threatening towards the west.
Dirty weather is coming on!”

“At any rate we have a favorable wind for reaching Cape Mandible,”
 observed the reporter.

“A very fine wind,” replied the sailor; “but we must tack to enter the
gulf, and I should like to see my way clear in these unknown quarters.”

“Quarters which appear to be filled with rocks,” added Herbert, “if we
judge by what we saw on the south coast of Shark Gulf.”

“Pencroft,” said Cyrus Harding, “do as you think best, we will leave it
to you.”

“Don’t make your mind uneasy, captain,” replied the sailor, “I shall not
expose myself needlessly! I would rather a knife were run into my ribs
than a sharp rock into those of my ‘Bonadventure!’”

That which Pencroft called ribs was the part of his vessel under water,
and he valued it more than his own skin.

“What o’clock is it?” asked Pencroft.

“Ten o’clock,” replied Gideon Spilett.

“And what distance is it to the Cape, captain?”

“About fifteen miles,” replied the engineer.

“That’s a matter of two hours and a half,” said the sailor, “and we
shall be off the Cape between twelve and one o’clock. Unluckily, the
tide will be turning at that moment, and will be ebbing out of the gulf.
I am afraid that it will be very difficult to get in, having both wind
and tide against us.”

“And the more so that it is a full moon to-day,” remarked Herbert, “and
these April tides are very strong.”

“Well, Pencroft,” asked Harding, “can you not anchor off the Cape?”

“Anchor near land, with bad weather coming on!” exclaimed the sailor.
“What are you thinking of, captain? We should run aground, of a
certainty!”

“What will you do then?”

“I shall try to keep in the offing until the flood, that is to say, till
about seven in the evening, and if there is still light enough I will
try to enter the gulf; if not, we must stand off and on during the
night, and we will enter to-morrow at sunrise.”

“As I told you, Pencroft, we will leave it to you,” answered Harding.

“Ah!” said Pencroft, “if there was only a lighthouse on the coast, it
would be much more convenient for sailors.”

“Yes,” replied Herbert, “and this time we shall have no obliging
engineer to light a fire to guide us into port!”

“Why, indeed, my dear Cyrus,” said Spilett, “we have never thanked you;
but frankly, without that fire we should never have been able--”

“A fire?” asked Harding, much astonished at the reporter’s words.

“We mean, captain,” answered Pencroft, “that on board the ‘Bonadventure’
we were very anxious during the few hours before our return, and we
should have passed to windward of the island, if it had not been for the
precaution you took of lighting a fire the night of the 19th of October,
on Prospect Heights.”

“Yes, yes! That was a lucky idea of mine!” replied the engineer.

“And this time,” continued the sailor, “unless the idea occurs to
Ayrton, there will be no one to do us that little service!”

“No! No one!” answered Cyrus Harding.

A few minutes after, finding himself alone in the bows of the vessel,
with the reporter, the engineer bent down and whispered,--

“If there is one thing certain in this world, Spilett, it is that I
never lighted any fire during the night of the 19th of October, neither
on Prospect Heights nor on any other part of the island!”



Chapter 20

Things happened as Pencroft had predicted, he being seldom mistaken in
his prognostications. The wind rose, and from a fresh breeze it soon
increased to a regular gale; that is to say, it acquired a speed of from
forty to forty-five miles an hour, before which a ship in the open sea
would have run under close-reefed topsails. Now, as it was nearly six
o’clock when the “Bonadventure” reached the gulf, and as at that
moment the tide turned, it was impossible to enter. They were therefore
compelled to stand off, for even if he had wished to do so, Pencroft
could not have gained the mouth of the Mercy. Hoisting the jib to the
mainmast by way of a storm-sail, he hove to, putting the head of the
vessel towards the land.

Fortunately, although the wind was strong the sea, being sheltered by
the land, did not run very high. They had then little to fear from
the waves, which always endanger small craft. The “Bonadventure” would
doubtlessly not have capsized, for she was well ballasted, but enormous
masses of water falling on the deck might injure her if her timbers
could not sustain them. Pencroft, as a good sailor, was prepared
for anything. Certainly, he had great confidence in his vessel, but
nevertheless he awaited the return of day with some anxiety.

During the night, Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett had no opportunity
for talking together, and yet the words pronounced in the reporter’s
ear by the engineer were well worth being discussed, together with the
mysterious influence which appeared to reign over Lincoln Island. Gideon
Spilett did not cease from pondering over this new and inexplicable
incident, the appearance of a fire on the coast of the island. The fire
had actually been seen! His companions, Herbert and Pencroft, had seen
it with him! The fire had served to signalize the position of the island
during that dark night, and they had not doubted that it was lighted by
the engineer’s hand; and here was Cyrus Harding expressly declaring that
he had never done anything of the sort! Spilett resolved to recur to
this incident as soon as the “Bonadventure” returned, and to urge Cyrus
Harding to acquaint their companions with these strange facts. Perhaps
it would be decided to make in common a complete investigation of every
part of Lincoln Island.

However that might be, on this evening no fire was lighted on these yet
unknown shores, which formed the entrance to the gulf, and the little
vessel stood off during the night.

When the first streaks of dawn appeared in the western horizon, the
wind, which had slightly fallen, shifted two points, and enabled
Pencroft to enter the narrow gulf with greater ease. Towards seven
o’clock in the morning, the “Bonadventure,” weathering the North
Mandible Cape, entered the strait and glided on to the waters, so
strangely enclosed in the frame of lava.

“Well,” said Pencroft, “this bay would make admirable roads, in which a
whole fleet could lie at their ease!”

“What is especially curious,” observed Harding, “is that the gulf
has been formed by two rivers of lava, thrown out by the volcano, and
accumulated by successive eruptions. The result is that the gulf is
completely sheltered on all sides, and I believe that even in the
stormiest weather, the sea here must be as calm as a lake.”

“No doubt,” returned the sailor, “since the wind has only that narrow
entrance between the two capes to get in by, and, besides, the north
cape protects that of the south in a way which would make the entrance
of gusts very difficult. I declare our ‘Bonadventure’ could stay here
from one end of the year to the other, without even dragging at her
anchor!”

“It is rather large for her!” observed the reporter.

“Well! Mr. Spilett,” replied the sailor, “I agree that it is too large
for the ‘Bonadventure,’ but if the fleets of the Union were in want of a
harbor in the Pacific, I don’t think they would ever find a better place
than this!”

“We are in the shark’s mouth,” remarked Neb, alluding to the form of the
gulf.

“Right into its mouth, my honest Neb!” replied Herbert, “but you are not
afraid that it will shut upon us, are you?”

“No, Mr. Herbert,” answered Neb, “and yet this gulf here doesn’t please
me much! It has a wicked look!”

“Hallo!” cried Pencroft, “here is Neb turning up his nose at my gulf,
just as I was thinking of presenting it to America!”

“But, at any rate, is the water deep enough?” asked the engineer, “for a
depth sufficient for the keel of the ‘Bonadventure’ would not be enough
for those of our iron-clads.”

“That is easily found out,” replied Pencroft.

And the sailor sounded with a long cord, which served him as a
lead-line, and to which was fastened a lump of iron. This cord measured
nearly fifty fathoms, and its entire length was unrolled without finding
any bottom.

“There,” exclaimed Pencroft, “our iron-clads can come here after all!
They would not run aground!”

“Indeed,” said Gideon Spilett, “this gulf is a regular abyss, but,
taking into consideration the volcanic origin of the island, it is not
astonishing that the sea should offer similar depressions.”

“One would say too,” observed Herbert, “that these cliffs were perfectly
perpendicular; and I believe that at their foot, even with a line five
or six times longer, Pencroft would not find bottom.”

“That is all very well,” then said the reporter, “but I must point out
to Pencroft that his harbor is wanting in one very important respect!”

“And what is that, Mr. Spilett?”

“An opening, a cutting of some sort, to give access to the interior of
the island. I do not see a spot on which we could land.” And, in
fact, the steep lava cliffs did not afford a single place suitable for
landing. They formed an insuperable barrier, recalling, but with more
wildness, the fiords of Norway. The “Bonadventure,” coasting as close
as possible along the cliffs, did not discover even a projection which
would allow the passengers to leave the deck.

Pencroft consoled himself by saying that with the help of a mine they
could soon open out the cliff when that was necessary, and then, as
there was evidently nothing to be done in the gulf, he steered his
vessel towards the strait and passed out at about two o’clock in the
afternoon.

“Ah!” said Neb, uttering a sigh of satisfaction.

One might really say that the honest Negro did not feel at his ease in
those enormous jaws.

The distance from Mandible Cape to the mouth of the Mercy was not more
than eight miles. The head of the “Bonadventure” was put towards Granite
House, and a fair wind filling her sails, she ran rapidly along the
coast.

To the enormous lava rocks succeeded soon those capricious sand dunes,
among which the engineer had been so singularly recovered, and which
seabirds frequented in thousands.

About four o’clock, Pencroft leaving the point of the islet on his
left, entered the channel which separated it from the coast, and at five
o’clock the anchor of the “Bonadventure” was buried in the sand at the
mouth of the Mercy.

The colonists had been absent three days from their dwelling. Ayrton
was waiting for them on the beach, and Jup came joyously to meet them,
giving vent to deep grunts of satisfaction.

A complete exploration of the coast of the island had now been made,
and no suspicious appearances had been observed. If any mysterious being
resided on it, it could only be under cover of the impenetrable forest
of the Serpentine Peninsula, to which the colonists had not yet directed
their investigations.

Gideon Spilett discussed these things with the engineer, and it was
agreed that they should direct the attention of their companions to the
strange character of certain incidents which had occurred on the island,
and of which the last was the most unaccountable.

However, Harding, returning to the fact of a fire having been kindled on
the shore by an unknown hand, could not refrain from repeating for the
twentieth time to the reporter,--

“But are you quite sure of having seen it? Was it not a partial eruption
of the volcano, or perhaps some meteor?”

“No, Cyrus,” answered the reporter, “it was certainly a fire lighted by
the hand of man. Besides; question Pencroft and Herbert. They saw it as
I saw it myself, and they will confirm my words.”

In consequence, therefore, a few days after, on the 25th of April, in
the evening, when the settlers were all collected on Prospect Heights,
Cyrus Harding began by saying,--

“My friends, I think it my duty to call your attention to certain
incidents which have occurred in the island, on the subject of which I
shall be happy to have your advice. These incidents are, so to speak,
supernatural--”

“Supernatural!” exclaimed the sailor, emitting a volume of smoke from
his mouth. “Can it be possible that our island is supernatural?”

“No, Pencroft, but mysterious, most certainly,” replied the engineer;
“unless you can explain that which Spilett and I have until now failed
to understand.”

“Speak away, captain,” answered the sailor.

“Well, have you understood,” then said the engineer, “how was it that
after falling into the sea, I was found a quarter of a mile into the
interior of the island, and that, without my having any consciousness of
my removal there?”

“Unless, being unconscious--” said Pencroft.

“That is not admissible,” replied the engineer. “But to continue. Have
you understood how Top was able to discover your retreat five miles from
the cave in which I was lying?”

“The dog’s instinct--” observed Herbert.

“Singular instinct!” returned the reporter, “since notwithstanding the
storm of rain and wind which was raging during that night, Top arrived
at the Chimneys, dry and without a speck of mud!”

“Let us continue,” resumed the engineer. “Have you understood how our
dog was so strangely thrown up out of the water of the lake, after his
struggle with the dugong?”

“No! I confess, not at all,” replied Pencroft, “and the wound which the
dugong had in its side, a wound which seemed to have been made with a
sharp instrument; that can’t be understood, either.”

“Let us continue again,” said Harding. “Have you understood, my friends,
how that bullet got into the body of the young peccary; how that case
happened to be so fortunately stranded, without there being any trace
of a wreck; how that bottle containing the document presented itself
so opportunely, during our first sea-excursion; how our canoe, having
broken its moorings, floated down the current of the Mercy and rejoined
us at the very moment we needed it; how after the ape invasion the
ladder was so obligingly thrown down from Granite House; and lastly, how
the document, which Ayrton asserts was never written by him, fell into
our hands?”

As Cyrus Harding thus enumerated, without forgetting one, the singular
incidents which had occurred in the island, Herbert, Neb, and Pencroft
stared at each other, not knowing what to reply, for this succession of
incidents, grouped thus for the first time, could not but excite their
surprise to the highest degree.

“‘Pon my word,” said Pencroft at last, “you are right, captain, and it
is difficult to explain all these things!”

“Well, my friends,” resumed the engineer, “a last fact has just been
added to these, and it is no less incomprehensible than the others!”

“What is it, captain?” asked Herbert quickly.

“When you were returning from Tabor Island, Pencroft,” continued the
engineer, “you said that a fire appeared on Lincoln Island?”

“Certainly,” answered the sailor.

“And you are quite certain of having seen this fire?”

“As sure as I see you now.”

“You also, Herbert?”

“Why, captain,” cried Herbert, “that fire was blazing like a star of the
first magnitude!”

“But was it not a star?” urged the engineer.

“No,” replied Pencroft, “for the sky was covered with thick clouds, and
at any rate a star would not have been so low on the horizon. But Mr.
Spilett saw it as well as we, and he will confirm our words.”

“I will add,” said the reporter, “that the fire was very bright, and
that it shot up like a sheet of lightning.”

“Yes, yes! exactly,” added Herbert, “and it was certainly placed on the
heights of Granite House.”

“Well, my friends,” replied Cyrus Harding, “during the night of the 19th
of October, neither Neb nor I lighted any fire on the coast.”

“You did not!” exclaimed Pencroft, in the height of his astonishment,
not being able to finish his sentence.

“We did not leave Granite House,” answered Cyrus Harding, “and if a fire
appeared on the coast, it was lighted by another hand than ours!”

Pencroft, Herbert, and Neb were stupefied. No illusion could be
possible, and a fire had actually met their eyes during the night of the
19th of October. Yes! they had to acknowledge it, a mystery existed! An
inexplicable influence, evidently favorable to the colonists, but very
irritating to their curiosity, was executed always in the nick of time
on Lincoln Island. Could there be some being hidden in its profoundest
recesses? It was necessary at any cost to ascertain this.

Harding also reminded his companions of the singular behavior of Top and
Jup when they prowled round the mouth of the well, which placed Granite
House in communication with the sea, and he told them that he had
explored the well, without discovering anything suspicious. The final
resolve taken, in consequence of this conversation, by all the members
of the colony, was that as soon as the fine season returned they would
thoroughly search the whole of the island.

But from that day Pencroft appeared to be anxious. He felt as if the
island which he had made his own personal property belonged to him
entirely no longer, and that he shared it with another master, to
whom, willing or not, he felt subject. Neb and he often talked of those
unaccountable things, and both, their natures inclining them to the
marvelous, were not far from believing that Lincoln Island was under the
dominion of some supernatural power.

In the meanwhile, the bad weather came with the month of May, the
November of the northern zones. It appeared that the winter would
be severe and forward. The preparations for the winter season were
therefore commenced without delay.

Nevertheless, the colonists were well prepared to meet the winter,
however hard it might be. They had plenty of felt clothing, and the
musmons, very numerous by this time, had furnished an abundance of wool
necessary for the manufacture of this warm material.

It is unnecessary to say that Ayrton had been provided with this
comfortable clothing. Cyrus Harding proposed that he should come to
spend the bad season with them in Granite House, where he would be
better lodged than at the corral, and Ayrton promised to do so, as soon
as the last work at the corral was finished. He did this towards the
middle of April. From that time Ayrton shared the common life, and made
himself useful on all occasions; but still humble and sad, he never took
part in the pleasures of his companions.

For the greater part of this, the third winter which the settlers passed
in Lincoln Island, they were confined to Granite House. There were many
violent storms and frightful tempests, which appeared to shake the rocks
to their very foundations. Immense waves threatened to overwhelm the
island, and certainly any vessel anchored near the shore would have
been dashed to pieces. Twice, during one of these hurricanes, the Mercy
swelled to such a degree as to give reason to fear that the bridges
would be swept away, and it was necessary to strengthen those on the
shore, which disappeared under the foaming waters, when the sea beat
against the beach.

It may well be supposed that such storms, comparable to water-spouts in
which were mingled rain and snow, would cause great havoc on the
plateau of Prospect Heights. The mill and the poultry-yard particularly
suffered. The colonists were often obliged to make immediate repairs,
without which the safety of the birds would have been seriously
threatened.

During the worst weather, several jaguars and troops of quadrumana
ventured to the edge of the plateau, and it was always to be feared that
the most active and audacious would, urged by hunger, manage to cross
the stream, which besides, when frozen, offered them an easy passage.
Plantations and domestic animals would then have been infallibly
destroyed, without a constant watch, and it was often necessary to
make use of the guns to keep those dangerous visitors at a respectful
distance. Occupation was not wanting to the colonists, for without
reckoning their out-door cares, they had always a thousand plans for the
fitting up of Granite House.

They had also some fine sporting excursions, which were made during the
frost in the vast Tadorn Marsh. Gideon Spilett and Herbert, aided by
Jup and Top, did not miss a shot in the midst of myriads of wild-duck,
snipe, teal, and others. The access to these hunting-grounds was easy;
besides, whether they reached them by the road to Port Balloon, after
having passed the Mercy Bridge, or by turning the rocks from Flotsam
Point, the hunters were never distant from Granite House more than two
or three miles.

Thus passed the four winter months, which were really rigorous, that is
to say, June, July, August, and September. But, in short, Granite House
did not suffer much from the inclemency of the weather, and it was
the same with the corral, which, less exposed than the plateau, and
sheltered partly by Mount Franklin, only received the remains of the
hurricanes, already broken by the forests and the high rocks of the
shore. The damages there were consequently of small importance, and the
activity and skill of Ayrton promptly repaired them, when some time in
October he returned to pass a few days in the corral.

During this winter, no fresh inexplicable incident occurred. Nothing
strange happened, although Pencroft and Neb were on the watch for the
most insignificant facts to which they attached any mysterious cause.
Top and Jup themselves no longer growled round the well or gave any
signs of uneasiness. It appeared, therefore, as if the series of
supernatural incidents was interrupted, although they often talked of
them during the evenings in Granite House, and they remained thoroughly
resolved that the island should be searched, even in those parts the
most difficult to explore. But an event of the highest importance, and
of which the consequences might be terrible, momentarily diverted from
their projects Cyrus Harding and his companions.

It was the month of October. The fine season was swiftly returning.
Nature was reviving; and among the evergreen foliage of the coniferae
which formed the border of the wood, already appeared the young leaves
of the banksias, deodars, and other trees.

It may be remembered that Gideon Spilett and Herbert had, at different
times, taken photographic views of Lincoln Island.

Now, on the 17th of this month of October, towards three o’clock in
the afternoon, Herbert, enticed by the charms of the sky, thought of
reproducing Union Bay, which was opposite to Prospect Heights, from Cape
Mandible to Claw Cape.

The horizon was beautifully clear, and the sea, undulating under a soft
breeze, was as calm as the waters of a lake, sparkling here and there
under the sun’s rays.

The apparatus had been placed at one of the windows of the dining-room
at Granite House, and consequently overlooked the shore and the bay.
Herbert proceeded as he was accustomed to do, and the negative obtained,
he went away to fix it by means of the chemicals deposited in a dark
nook of Granite House.

Returning to the bright light, and examining it well, Herbert perceived
on his negative an almost imperceptible little spot on the sea horizon.
He endeavored to make it disappear by reiterated washing, but could not
accomplish it.

“It is a flaw in the glass,” he thought.

And then he had the curiosity to examine this flaw with a strong
magnifier which he unscrewed from one of the telescopes.

But he had scarcely looked at it, when he uttered a cry, and the glass
almost fell from his hands.

Immediately running to the room in which Cyrus Harding then was, he
extended the negative and magnifier towards the engineer, pointing out
the little spot.

Harding examined it; then seizing his telescope he rushed to the window.

The telescope, after having slowly swept the horizon, at last stopped on
the looked-for spot, and Cyrus Harding, lowering it, pronounced one word
only,--

“A vessel!”

And in fact a vessel was in sight, off Lincoln Island!





PART 3

THE SECRET OF THE ISLAND



Chapter 1

It was now two years and a half since the castaways from the balloon had
been thrown on Lincoln Island, and during that period there had been no
communication between them and their fellow-creatures. Once the reporter
had attempted to communicate with the inhabited world by confiding to
a bird a letter which contained the secret of their situation, but that
was a chance on which it was impossible to reckon seriously. Ayrton,
alone, under the circumstances which have been related, had come to
join the little colony. Now, suddenly, on this day, the 17th of October,
other men had unexpectedly appeared in sight of the island, on that
deserted sea!

There could be no doubt about it! A vessel was there! But would she
pass on, or would she put into port? In a few hours the colonists would
definitely know what to expect.

Cyrus Harding and Herbert having immediately called Gideon Spilett,
Pencroft, and Neb into the dining-room of Granite House, told them
what had happened. Pencroft, seizing the telescope, rapidly swept the
horizon, and stopping on the indicated point, that is to say, on
that which had made the almost imperceptible spot on the photographic
negative,--

“I’m blessed but it is really a vessel!” he exclaimed, in a voice which
did not express any great amount of satisfaction.

“Is she coming here?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“Impossible to say anything yet,” answered Pencroft, “for her rigging
alone is above the horizon, and not a bit of her hull can be seen.”

“What is to be done?” asked the lad.

“Wait,” replied Harding.

And for a considerable time the settlers remained silent, given up to
all the thoughts, and the emotions, all the fears, all the hopes, which
were aroused by this incident--the most important which had occurred
since their arrival in Lincoln Island. Certainly, the colonists were not
in the situation of castaways abandoned on a sterile islet, constantly
contending against a cruel nature for their miserable existence, and
incessantly tormented by the longing to return to inhabited countries.
Pencroft and Neb, especially, who felt themselves at once so happy and
so rich, would not have left their island without regret. They were
accustomed, besides, to this new life in the midst of the domain which
their intelligence had as it were civilized. But at any rate this ship
brought news from the world, perhaps even from their native land. It was
bringing fellow-creatures to them, and it may be conceived how deeply
their hearts were moved at the sight!

From time to time Pencroft took the glass and rested himself at the
window. From thence he very attentively examined the vessel, which was
at a distance of twenty miles to the east. The colonists had as yet,
therefore, no means of signalizing their presence. A flag would not have
been perceived; a gun would not have been heard; a fire would not have
been visible. However, it was certain that the island, overtopped by
Mount Franklin, could not escape the notice of the vessel’s lookout. But
why was the ship coming there? Was it simple chance which brought it to
that part of the Pacific, where the maps mentioned no land except Tabor
Island, which itself was out of the route usually followed by vessels
from the Polynesian Archipelagoes, from New Zealand, and from the
American coast? To this question, which each one asked himself, a reply
was suddenly made by Herbert.

“Can it be the ‘Duncan’?” he cried.

The “Duncan,” as has been said, was Lord Glenarvan’s yacht, which had
left Ayrton on the islet, and which was to return there someday to fetch
him. Now, the islet was not so far distant from Lincoln Island, but
that a vessel, standing for the one, could pass in sight of the other. A
hundred and fifty miles only separated them in longitude, and seventy in
latitude.

“We must tell Ayrton,” said Gideon Spilett, “and send for him
immediately. He alone can say if it is the ‘Duncan.’”

This was the opinion of all, and the reporter, going to the telegraphic
apparatus which placed the corral in communication with Granite House,
sent this telegram:--“Come with all possible speed.”

In a few minutes the bell sounded.

“I am coming,” replied Ayrton.

Then the settlers continued to watch the vessel.

“If it is the ‘Duncan,’” said Herbert, “Ayrton will recognize her
without difficulty, since he sailed on board her for some time.”

“And if he recognizes her,” added Pencroft, “it will agitate him
exceedingly!”

“Yes,” answered Cyrus Harding; “but now Ayrton is worthy to return on
board the ‘Duncan,’ and pray Heaven that it is indeed Lord Glenarvan’s
yacht, for I should be suspicious of any other vessel. These are
ill-famed seas, and I have always feared a visit from Malay pirates to
our island.”

“We could defend it,’, cried Herbert.

“No doubt, my boy,” answered the engineer smiling, “but it would be
better not to have to defend it.”

“A useless observation,” said Spilett. “Lincoln Island is unknown to
navigators, since it is not marked even on the most recent maps. Do
you think, Cyrus, that that is a sufficient motive for a ship, finding
herself unexpectedly in sight of new land, to try and visit rather than
avoid it?”

“Certainly,” replied Pencroft.

“I think so too,” added the engineer. “It may even be said that it is
the duty of a captain to come and survey any land or island not yet
known, and Lincoln Island is in this position.”

“Well,” said Pencroft, “suppose this vessel comes and anchors there a
few cables-lengths from our island, what shall we do?”

This sudden question remained at first without any reply. But Cyrus
Harding, after some moments’ thought, replied in the calm tone which was
usual to him,--

“What we shall do, my friends? What we ought to do is this:--we will
communicate with the ship, we will take our passage on board her, and we
will leave our island, after having taken possession of it in the name
of the United States. Then we will return with any who may wish to
follow us to colonize it definitely, and endow the American Republic
with a useful station in this part of the Pacific Ocean!”

“Hurrah!” exclaimed Pencroft, “and that will be no small present
which we shall make to our country! The colonization is already almost
finished; names are given to every part of the island; there is
a natural port, fresh water, roads, a telegraph, a dockyard, and
manufactories; and there will be nothing to be done but to inscribe
Lincoln Island on the maps!”

“But if anyone seizes it in our absence?” observed Gideon Spilett.

“Hang it!” cried the sailor. “I would rather remain all alone to guard
it: and trust to Pencroft, they shouldn’t steal it from him, like a
watch from the pocket of a swell!”

For an hour it was impossible to say with any certainty whether the
vessel was or was not standing towards Lincoln Island. She was
nearer, but in what direction was she sailing? This Pencroft could not
determine. However, as the wind was blowing from the northeast, in all
probability the vessel was sailing on the starboard tack. Besides, the
wind was favorable for bringing her towards the island, and, the sea
being calm, she would not be afraid to approach although the shallows
were not marked on the chart.

Towards four o’clock--an hour after he had been sent for--Ayrton arrived
at Granite House. He entered the dining-room saying,--

“At your service, gentlemen.”

Cyrus Harding gave him his hand, as was his custom to do, and, leading
him to the window,--

“Ayrton,” said he, “we have begged you to come here for an important
reason. A ship is in sight of the island.”

Ayrton at first paled slightly, and for a moment his eyes became dim;
then, leaning out the window, he surveyed the horizon, but could see
nothing.

“Take this telescope,” said Spilett, “and look carefully, Ayrton, for
it is possible that this ship may be the ‘Duncan’ come to these seas for
the purpose of taking you home again.”

“The ‘Duncan!’” murmured Ayrton. “Already?” This last word escaped
Ayrton’s lips as if involuntarily, and his head drooped upon his hands.

Did not twelve years’ solitude on a desert island appear to him a
sufficient expiation? Did not the penitent yet feel himself pardoned,
either in his own eyes or in the eyes of others?

“No,” said he, “no! it cannot be the ‘Duncan’!”

“Look, Ayrton,” then said the engineer, “for it is necessary that we
should know beforehand what to expect.”

Ayrton took the glass and pointed it in the direction indicated. During
some minutes he examined the horizon without moving, without uttering a
word. Then,--

“It is indeed a vessel,” said he, “but I do not think she is the
‘Duncan.’”

“Why do you not think so?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“Because the ‘Duncan’ is a steam-yacht, and I cannot perceive any trace
of smoke either above or near that vessel.”

“Perhaps she is simply sailing,” observed Pencroft. “The wind is
favorable for the direction which she appears to be taking, and she may
be anxious to economize her coal, being so far from land.”

“It is possible that you may be right, Mr. Pencroft,” answered Ayrton,
“and that the vessel has extinguished her fires. We must wait until she
is nearer, and then we shall soon know what to expect.”

So saying, Ayrton sat down in a corner of the room and remained silent.
The colonists again discussed the strange ship, but Ayrton took no
part in the conversation. All were in such a mood that they found it
impossible to continue their work. Gideon Spilett and Pencroft were
particularly nervous, going, coming, not able to remain still in one
place. Herbert felt more curiosity. Neb alone maintained his usual
calm manner. Was not his country that where his master was? As to the
engineer, he remained plunged in deep thought, and in his heart feared
rather than desired the arrival of the ship. In the meanwhile, the
vessel was a little nearer the island. With the aid of the glass, it was
ascertained that she was a brig, and not one of those Malay proas, which
are generally used by the pirates of the Pacific. It was, therefore,
reasonable to believe that the engineer’s apprehensions would not be
justified, and that the presence of this vessel in the vicinity of the
island was fraught with no danger.

Pencroft, after a minute examination, was able positively to affirm that
the vessel was rigged as a brig, and that she was standing obliquely
towards the coast, on the starboard tack, under her topsails and
top-gallant-sails. This was confirmed by Ayrton. But by continuing in
this direction she must soon disappear behind Claw Cape, as the wind
was from the southwest, and to watch her it would be then necessary
to ascend the height of Washington Bay, near Port Balloon--a provoking
circumstance, for it was already five o’clock in the evening, and the
twilight would soon make any observation extremely difficult.

“What shall we do when night comes on?” asked Gideon Spilett. “Shall we
light a fire, so as to signal our presence on the coast?”

This was a serious question, and yet, although the engineer still
retained some of his presentiments, it was answered in the affirmative.
During the night the ship might disappear and leave for ever, and, this
ship gone, would another ever return to the waters of Lincoln Island?
Who could foresee what the future would then have in store for the
colonists?

“Yes,” said the reporter, “we ought to make known to that vessel,
whoever she may be, that the island is inhabited. To neglect the
opportunity which is offered to us might be to create everlasting
regrets.”

It was therefore decided that Neb and Pencroft should go to Port
Balloon, and that there, at nightfall, they should light an immense
fire, the blaze of which would necessarily attract the attention of the
brig.

But at the moment when Neb and the sailor were preparing to leave
Granite House, the vessel suddenly altered her course, and stood
directly for Union Bay. The brig was a good sailer, for she approached
rapidly. Neb and Pencroft put off their departure, therefore, and the
glass was put into Ayrton’s hands, that he might ascertain for certain
whether the ship was or was not the “Duncan.” The Scotch yacht was also
rigged as a brig. The question was, whether a chimney could be discerned
between the two masts of the vessel, which was now at a distance of only
five miles.

The horizon was still very clear. The examination was easy, and Ayrton
soon let the glass fall again, saying--

“It is not the ‘Duncan’! It could not be!”

Pencroft again brought the brig within the range of the telescope, and
could see that she was of between three and four hundred tons burden,
wonderfully narrow, well-masted, admirably built, and must be a very
rapid sailer. But to what nation did she belong? That was difficult to
say.

“And yet,” added the sailor, “a flag is floating from her peak, but I
cannot distinguish the colors of it.”

“In half an hour we shall be certain about that,” answered the reporter.
“Besides, it is very evident that the intention of the captain of this
ship is to land, and, consequently, if not today, to-morrow at the
latest, we shall make his acquaintance.”

“Never mind!” said Pencroft. “It is best to know whom we have to deal
with, and I shall not be sorry to recognize that fellow’s colors!”

And, while thus speaking, the sailor never left the glass. The day began
to fade, and with the day the breeze fell also. The brig’s ensign hung
in folds, and it became more and more difficult to observe it.

“It is not the American flag,” said Pencroft from time to time, “nor the
English, the red of which could be easily seen, nor the French or German
colors, nor the white flag of Russia, nor the yellow of Spain. One would
say it was all one color. Let’s see: in these seas, what do we generally
meet with? The Chilean flag?--but that is tri-color. Brazilian?--it is
green. Japanese?--it is yellow and black, while this--”

At that moment the breeze blew out the unknown flag. Ayrton seizing the
telescope which the sailor had put down, put it to his eye, and in a
hoarse voice,--

“The black flag!” he exclaimed.

And indeed the somber bunting was floating from the mast of the brig,
and they had now good reason for considering her to be a suspicious
vessel!

Had the engineer, then, been right in his presentiments? Was this a
pirate vessel? Did she scour the Pacific, competing with the Malay proas
which still infest it? For what had she come to look at the shores of
Lincoln Island? Was it to them an unknown island, ready to become
a magazine for stolen cargoes? Had she come to find on the coast a
sheltered port for the winter months? Was the settlers’ honest domain
destined to be transformed into an infamous refuge--the headquarters of
the piracy of the Pacific?

All these ideas instinctively presented themselves to the colonists’
imaginations. There was no doubt, besides, of the signification which
must be attached to the color of the hoisted flag. It was that of
pirates! It was that which the “Duncan” would have carried, had the
convicts succeeded in their criminal design! No time was lost before
discussing it.

“My friends,” said Cyrus Harding, “perhaps this vessel only wishes to
survey the coast of the island. Perhaps her crew will not land. There is
a chance of it. However that may be, we ought to do everything we can to
hide our presence here. The windmill on Prospect Heights is too easily
seen. Let Ayrton and Neb go and take down the sails. We must also
conceal the windows of Granite House with thick branches. All the fires
must be extinguished, so that nothing may betray the presence of men on
the island.”

“And our vessel?” said Herbert.

“Oh,” answered Pencroft, “she is sheltered in Port Balloon, and I defy
any of those rascals there to find her!”

The engineer’s orders were immediately executed. Neb and Ayrton
ascended the plateau, and took the necessary precautions to conceal
any indication of a settlement. While they were thus occupied, their
companions went to the border of Jacamar Wood, and brought back a large
quantity of branches and creepers, which would at some distance appear
as natural foliage, and thus disguise the windows in the granite cliff.
At the same time, the ammunition and guns were placed ready so as to be
at hand in case of an unexpected attack.

When all these precautions had been taken,--

“My friends,” said Harding, and his voice betrayed some emotion, “if the
wretches endeavor to seize Lincoln Island, we shall defend it--shall we
not?”

“Yes, Cyrus,” replied the reporter, “and if necessary we will die to
defend it!”

The engineer extended his hand to his companions, who pressed it warmly.
Ayrton remained in his corner, not joining the colonists. Perhaps he,
the former convict, still felt himself unworthy to do so!

Cyrus Harding understood what was passing in Ayrton’s mind, and going to
him--

“And you, Ayrton,” he asked, “what will you do?”

“My duty,” answered Ayrton.

He then took up his station near the window and gazed through the
foliage.

It was now half-past seven. The sun had disappeared twenty minutes ago
behind Granite House. Consequently the Eastern horizon was becoming
obscured. In the meanwhile the brig continued to advance towards Union
Bay. She was now not more than two miles off, and exactly opposite the
plateau of Prospect Heights, for after having tacked off Claw Cape, she
had drifted towards the north in the current of the rising tide. One
might have said that at this distance she had already entered the vast
bay, for a straight line drawn from Claw Cape to Cape Mandible would
have rested on her starboard quarter.

Was the brig about to penetrate far into the bay? That was the first
question. When once in the bay, would she anchor there? That was the
second. Would she not content herself with only surveying the coast, and
stand out to sea again without landing her crew? They would know this in
an hour. The colonists could do nothing but wait.

Cyrus Harding had not seen the suspected vessel hoist the black flag
without deep anxiety. Was it not a direct menace against the work which
he and his companions had till now conducted so successfully? Had these
pirates--for the sailors of the brig could be nothing else--already
visited the island, since on approaching it they had hoisted their
colors. Had they formerly invaded it, so that certain unaccountable
peculiarities might be explained in this way? Did there exist in the as
yet unexplored parts some accomplice ready to enter into communication
with them?

To all these questions which he mentally asked himself, Harding knew not
what to reply; but he felt that the safety of the colony could not but
be seriously threatened by the arrival of the brig.

However, he and his companions were determined to fight to the last
gasp. It would have been very important to know if the pirates
were numerous and better armed than the colonists. But how was this
information to be obtained?

Night fell. The new moon had disappeared. Profound darkness enveloped
the island and the sea. No light could pierce through the heavy piles
of clouds on the horizon. The wind had died away completely with the
twilight. Not a leaf rustled on the trees, not a ripple murmured on
the shore. Nothing could be seen of the ship, all her lights being
extinguished, and if she was still in sight of the island, her
whereabouts could not be discovered.

“Well! who knows?” said Pencroft. “Perhaps that cursed craft will stand
off during the night, and we shall see nothing of her at daybreak.”

As if in reply to the sailor’s observation, a bright light flashed in
the darkness, and a cannon-shot was heard.

The vessel was still there and had guns on board.

Six seconds elapsed between the flash and the report.

Therefore the brig was about a mile and a quarter from the coast.

At the same time, the chains were heard rattling through the
hawse-holes.

The vessel had just anchored in sight of Granite House!



Chapter 2

There was no longer any doubt as to the pirates’ intentions. They had
dropped anchor at a short distance from the island, and it was evident
that the next day by means of their boats they purposed to land on the
beach!

Cyrus Harding and his companions were ready to act, but, determined
though they were, they must not forget to be prudent. Perhaps their
presence might still be concealed in the event of the pirates contenting
themselves with landing on the shore without examining the interior of
the island. It might be, indeed, that their only intention was to obtain
fresh water from the Mercy, and it was not impossible that the bridge,
thrown across a mile and a half from the mouth, and the manufactory at
the Chimneys might escape their notice.

But why was that flag hoisted at the brig’s peak? What was that shot
fired for? Pure bravado doubtless, unless it was a sign of the act of
taking possession. Harding knew now that the vessel was well armed. And
what had the colonists of Lincoln Island to reply to the pirates’ guns?
A few muskets only.

“However,” observed Cyrus Harding, “here we are in an impregnable
position. The enemy cannot discover the mouth of the outlet, now that it
is hidden under reeds and grass, and consequently it would be impossible
for them to penetrate into Granite House.”

“But our plantations, our poultry-yard, our corral, all, everything!”
 exclaimed Pencroft, stamping his foot. “They may spoil everything,
destroy everything in a few hours!”

“Everything, Pencroft,” answered Harding, “and we have no means of
preventing them.”

“Are they numerous? that is the question,” said the reporter. “If they
are not more than a dozen, we shall be able to stop them, but forty,
fifty, more perhaps!”

“Captain Harding,” then said Ayrton, advancing towards the engineer,
“will you give me leave?”

“For what, my friend?”

“To go to that vessel to find out the strength of her crew.”

“But Ayrton--” answered the engineer, hesitating, “you will risk your
life--”

“Why not, sir?”

“That is more than your duty.”

“I have more than my duty to do,” replied Ayrton.

“Will you go to the ship in the boat?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“No, sir, but I will swim. A boat would be seen where a man may glide
between wind and water.”

“Do you know that the brig is a mile and a quarter from the shore?” said
Herbert.

“I am a good swimmer, Mr. Herbert.”

“I tell you it is risking your life,” said the engineer.

“That is no matter,” answered Ayrton. “Captain Harding, I ask this as a
favor. Perhaps it will be a means of raising me in my own eyes!”

“Go, Ayrton,” replied the engineer, who felt sure that a refusal would
have deeply wounded the former convict, now become an honest man.

“I will accompany you,” said Pencroft.

“You mistrust me!” said Ayrton quickly.

Then more humbly,--

“Alas!”

“No! no!” exclaimed Harding with animation, “no, Ayrton, Pencroft does
not mistrust you. You interpret his words wrongly.”

“Indeed,” returned the sailor, “I only propose to accompany Ayrton as
far as the islet. It may be, although it is scarcely possible, that one
of these villains has landed, and in that case two men will not be too
many to hinder him from giving the alarm. I will wait for Ayrton on the
islet, and he shall go alone to the vessel, since he has proposed to do
so.” These things agreed to, Ayrton made preparations for his departure.
His plan was bold, but it might succeed, thanks to the darkness of the
night. Once arrived at the vessel’s side, Ayrton, holding on to the main
chains, might reconnoiter the number and perhaps overhear the intentions
of the pirates.

Ayrton and Pencroft, followed by their companions, descended to the
beach. Ayrton undressed and rubbed himself with grease, so as to suffer
less from the temperature of the water, which was still cold. He might,
indeed, be obliged to remain in it for several hours.

Pencroft and Neb, during this time, had gone to fetch the boat, moored
a few hundred feet higher up, on the bank of the Mercy, and by the time
they returned, Ayrton was ready to start. A coat was thrown over his
shoulders, and the settlers all came round him to press his hand.

Ayrton then shoved off with Pencroft in the boat.

It was half-past ten in the evening when the two adventurers disappeared
in the darkness. Their companions returned to wait at the Chimneys.

The channel was easily traversed, and the boat touched the opposite
shore of the islet. This was not done without precaution, for fear lest
the pirates might be roaming about there. But after a careful survey,
it was evident that the islet was deserted. Ayrton then, followed by
Pencroft, crossed it with a rapid step, scaring the birds nestled in the
holes of the rocks; then, without hesitating, he plunged into the sea,
and swam noiselessly in the direction of the ship, in which a few lights
had recently appeared, showing her exact situation. As to Pencroft,
he crouched down in a cleft of the rock, and awaited the return of his
companion.

In the meanwhile, Ayrton, swimming with a vigorous stroke, glided
through the sheet of water without producing the slightest ripple. His
head just emerged above it and his eyes were fixed on the dark hull of
the brig, from which the lights were reflected in the water. He thought
only of the duty which he had promised to accomplish, and nothing of the
danger which he ran, not only on board the ship, but in the sea, often
frequented by sharks. The current bore him along and he rapidly receded
from the shore.

Half an hour afterwards, Ayrton, without having been either seen or
heard, arrived at the ship and caught hold of the main-chains. He took
breath, then, hoisting himself up, he managed to reach the extremity of
the cutwater. There were drying several pairs of sailors’ trousers. He
put on a pair. Then settling himself firmly, he listened. They were not
sleeping on board the brig. On the contrary, they were talking, singing,
laughing. And these were the sentences, accompanied with oaths, which
principally struck Ayrton:--

“Our brig is a famous acquisition.”

“She sails well, and merits her name of the ‘Speedy.’”

“She would show all the navy of Norfolk a clean pair of heels.”

“Hurrah for her captain!”

“Hurrah for Bob Harvey!”

What Ayrton felt when he overheard this fragment of conversation may be
understood when it is known that in this Bob Harvey he recognized one
of his old Australian companions, a daring sailor, who had continued his
criminal career. Bob Harvey had seized, on the shores of Norfolk Island
this brig, which was loaded with arms, ammunition, utensils, and tools
of all sorts, destined for one of the Sandwich Islands. All his gang had
gone on board, and pirates after having been convicts, these wretches,
more ferocious than the Malays themselves, scoured the Pacific,
destroying vessels, and massacring their crews.

The convicts spoke loudly, they recounted their deeds, drinking deeply
at the same time, and this is what Ayrton gathered. The actual crew
of the “Speedy” was composed solely of English prisoners, escaped from
Norfolk Island.

Here it may be well to explain what this island was. In 29deg 2’ south
latitude, and 165deg 42’ east longitude, to the east of Australia, is
found a little island, six miles in circumference, overlooked by Mount
Pitt, which rises to a height of 1,100 feet above the level of the sea.
This is Norfolk Island, once the seat of an establishment in which were
lodged the most intractable convicts from the English penitentiaries.
They numbered 500, under an iron discipline, threatened with terrible
punishments, and were guarded by 150 soldiers, and 150 employed
under the orders of the governor. It would be difficult to imagine
a collection of greater ruffians. Sometimes,--although very
rarely,--notwithstanding the extreme surveillance of which they were
the object, many managed to escape, and seizing vessels which they
surprised, they infested the Polynesian Archipelagoes.

Thus had Bob Harvey and his companions done. Thus had Ayrton formerly
wished to do. Bob Harvey had seized the brig “Speedy,” anchored in sight
of Norfolk Island; the crew had been massacred; and for a year this ship
had scoured the Pacific, under the command of Harvey, now a pirate, and
well known to Ayrton!

The convicts were, for the most part, assembled under the poop; but a
few, stretched on the deck, were talking loudly.

The conversation still continued amid shouts and libations. Ayrton
learned that chance alone had brought the “Speedy” in sight of Lincoln
Island; Bob Harvey had never yet set foot on it; but, as Cyrus Harding
had conjectured, finding this unknown land in his course, its position
being marked on no chart, he had formed the project of visiting it, and,
if he found it suitable, of making it the brig’s headquarters.

As to the black flag hoisted at the “Speedy’s” peak, and the gun which
had been fired, in imitation of men-of-war when they lower their
colors, it was pure piratical bravado. It was in no way a signal, and no
communication yet existed between the convicts and Lincoln Island.

The settlers’ domain was now menaced with terrible danger. Evidently
the island, with its water, its harbor, its resources of all kinds so
increased in value by the colonists, and the concealment afforded by
Granite House, could not but be convenient for the convicts; in their
hands it would become an excellent place of refuge, and, being unknown,
it would assure them, for a long time perhaps, impunity and security.
Evidently, also, the lives of the settlers would not be respected, and
Bob Harvey and his accomplices’ first care would be to massacre them
without mercy. Harding and his companions had, therefore, not even the
choice of flying and hiding themselves in the island, since the convicts
intended to reside there, and since, in the event of the “Speedy”
 departing on an expedition, it was probable that some of the crew would
remain on shore, so as to settle themselves there. Therefore, it
would be necessary to fight, to destroy every one of these scoundrels,
unworthy of pity, and against whom any means would be right. So thought
Ayrton, and he well knew that Cyrus Harding would be of his way of
thinking.

But was resistance and, in the last place, victory possible? That would
depend on the equipment of the brig, and the number of men which she
carried.

This Ayrton resolved to learn at any cost, and as an hour after his
arrival the vociferations had begun to die away, and as a large number
of the convicts were already buried in a drunken sleep, Ayrton did not
hesitate to venture onto the “Speedy’s” deck, which the extinguished
lanterns now left in total darkness. He hoisted himself onto the
cutwater, and by the bowsprit arrived at the forecastle. Then, gliding
among the convicts stretched here and there, he made the round of the
ship, and found that the “Speedy” carried four guns, which would throw
shot of from eight to ten pounds in weight. He found also, on touching
them that these guns were breech-loaders. They were therefore, of modern
make, easily used, and of terrible effect.

As to the men lying on the deck, they were about ten in number, but
it was to be supposed that more were sleeping down below. Besides, by
listening to them, Ayrton had understood that there were fifty on
board. That was a large number for the six settlers of Lincoln Island to
contend with! But now, thanks to Ayrton’s devotion, Cyrus Harding would
not be surprised, he would know the strength of his adversaries, and
would make his arrangements accordingly.

There was nothing more for Ayrton to do but to return, and render to his
companions an account of the mission with which he had charged himself,
and he prepared to regain the bows of the brig, so that he might let
himself down into the water. But to this man, whose wish was, as he had
said, to do more than his duty, there came an heroic thought. This was
to sacrifice his own life, but save the island and the colonists. Cyrus
Harding evidently could not resist fifty ruffians, all well armed, who,
either by penetrating by main force into Granite House, or by starving
out the besieged, could obtain from them what they wanted. And then he
thought of his preservers--those who had made him again a man, and an
honest mm, those to whom he owed all--murdered without pity, their works
destroyed, their island turned into a pirates’ den! He said to himself
that he, Ayrton, was the principal cause of so many disasters, since his
old companion, Bob Harvey, had but realized his own plans, and a
feeling of horror took possession of him. Then he was seized with an
irresistible desire to blow up the brig and with her, all whom she had
on board. He would perish in the explosion, but he would have done his
duty.

Ayrton did not hesitate. To reach the powder-room, which is always
situated in the after-part of a vessel, was easy. There would be no want
of powder in a vessel which followed such a trade, and a spark would be
enough to destroy it in an instant.

Ayrton stole carefully along the between-decks, strewn with numerous
sleepers, overcome more by drunkenness than sleep. A lantern was lighted
at the foot of the mainmast, round which was hung a gun-rack, furnished
with weapons of all sorts.

Ayrton took a revolver from the rack, and assured himself that it was
loaded and primed. Nothing more was needed to accomplish the work of
destruction. He then glided towards the stern, so as to arrive under the
brig’s poop at the powder-magazine.

It was difficult to proceed along the dimly lighted deck without
stumbling over some half-sleeping convict, who retorted by oaths and
kicks. Ayrton was, therefore, more than once obliged to halt. But at
last he arrived at the partition dividing the aftercabin, and found the
door opening into the magazine itself.

Ayrton, compelled to force it open, set to work. It was a difficult
operation to perform without noise, for he had to break a padlock. But
under his vigorous hand, the padlock broke, and the door was open.

At that moment a hand was laid on Ayrton’s shoulder.

“What are you doing here?” asked a tall man, in a harsh voice, who,
standing in the shadow, quickly threw the light of a lantern in Ayrton’s
face.

Ayrton drew back. In the rapid flash of the lantern, he had recognized
his former accomplice, Bob Harvey, who could not have known him, as he
must have thought Ayrton long since dead.

“What are you doing here?” again said Bob Harvey, seizing Ayrton by the
waistband.

But Ayrton, without replying, wrenched himself from his grasp and
attempted to rush into the magazine. A shot fired into the midst of the
powder-casks, and all would be over!

“Help, lads!” shouted Bob Harvey.

At his shout two or three pirates awoke, jumped up, and, rushing on
Ayrton, endeavored to throw him down. He soon extricated himself from
their grasp. He fired his revolver, and two of the convicts fell, but
a blow from a knife which he could not ward off made a gash in his
shoulder.

Ayrton perceived that he could no longer hope to carry out his project.
Bob Harvey had reclosed the door of the powder-magazine, and a movement
on the deck indicated a general awakening of the pirates. Ayrton must
reserve himself to fight at the side of Cyrus Harding. There was nothing
for him but flight!

But was flight still possible? It was doubtful, yet Ayrton resolved to
dare everything in order to rejoin his companions.

Four barrels of the revolver were still undischarged. Two were
fired--one, aimed at Bob Harvey, did not wound him, or at any rate
only slightly, and Ayrton, profiting by the momentary retreat of his
adversaries, rushed towards the companion-ladder to gain the deck.
Passing before the lantern, he smashed it with a blow from the butt of
his revolver. A profound darkness ensued, which favored his flight. Two
or three pirates, awakened by the noise, were descending the ladder at
the same moment.

A fifth shot from Ayrton laid one low, and the others drew back, not
understanding what was going on. Ayrton was on deck in two bounds, and
three seconds later, having discharged his last barrel in the face of
a pirate who was about to seize him by the throat, he leaped over the
bulwarks into the sea.

Ayrton had not made six strokes before shots were splashing around him
like hail.

What were Pencroft’s feelings, sheltered under a rock on the islet! What
were those of Harding, the reporter, Herbert, and Neb, crouched in the
Chimneys, when they heard the reports on board the brig! They rushed out
on to the beach, and, their guns shouldered, they stood ready to repel
any attack.

They had no doubt about it themselves! Ayrton, surprised by the pirates,
had been murdered, and, perhaps, the wretches would profit by the night
to make a descent on the island!

Half an hour was passed in terrible anxiety. The firing had ceased, and
yet neither Ayrton nor Pencroft had reappeared. Was the islet invaded?
Ought they not to fly to the help of Ayrton and Pencroft? But how? The
tide being high at that time, rendered the channel impassable. The boat
was not there! We may imagine the horrible anxiety which took possession
of Harding and his companions!

At last, towards half-past twelve, a boat, carrying two men, touched the
beach. It was Ayrton, slightly wounded in the shoulder, and Pencroft,
safe and sound, whom their friends received with open arms.

All immediately took refuge in the Chimneys. There Ayrton recounted all
that had passed, even to his plan for blowing up the brig, which he had
attempted to put into execution.

All hands were extended to Ayrton, who did not conceal from them that
their situation was serious. The pirates had been alarmed. They knew
that Lincoln Island was inhabited. They would land upon it in numbers
and well armed. They would respect nothing. Should the settlers fall
into their hands, they must expect no mercy!

“Well, we shall know how to die!” said the reporter.

“Let us go in and watch,” answered the engineer.

“Have we any chance of escape, captain?” asked the sailor.

“Yes, Pencroft.”

“Hum! six against fifty!”

“Yes! six! without counting--”

“Who?” asked Pencroft.

Cyrus did not reply, but pointed upwards.



Chapter 3

The night passed without incident. The colonists were on the qui vive,
and did not leave their post at the Chimneys. The pirates, on their
side, did not appear to have made any attempt to land. Since the last
shots fired at Ayrton not a report, not even a sound, had betrayed the
presence of the brig in the neighborhood of the island. It might have
been fancied that she had weighed anchor, thinking that she had to deal
with her match, and had left the coast.

But it was no such thing, and when day began to dawn the settlers could
see a confused mass through the morning mist. It was the “Speedy.”

“These, my friends,” said the engineer, “are the arrangements which
appear to me best to make before the fog completely clears away. It
hides us from the eyes of the pirates, and we can act without attracting
their attention. The most important thing is, that the convicts
should believe that the inhabitants of the island are numerous, and
consequently capable of resisting them. I therefore propose that we
divide into three parties. The first of which shall be posted at the
Chimneys, the second at the mouth of the Mercy. As to the third, I think
it would be best to place it on the islet, so as to prevent, or at all
events delay, any attempt at landing. We have the use of two rifles and
four muskets. Each of us will be armed, and, as we are amply provided
with powder and shot, we need not spare our fire. We have nothing to
fear from the muskets nor even from the guns of the brig. What can they
do against these rocks? And, as we shall not fire from the windows of
Granite House, the pirates will not think of causing irreparable damage
by throwing shell against it. What is to be feared is, the necessity of
meeting hand-to-hand, since the convicts have numbers on their side. We
must therefore try to prevent them from landing, but without discovering
ourselves. Therefore, do not economize the ammunition. Fire often, but
with a sure aim. We have each eight or ten enemies to kill, and they
must be killed!”

Cyrus Harding had clearly represented their situation, although he spoke
in the calmest voice, as if it was a question of directing a piece
of work and not ordering a battle. His companions approved these
arrangements without even uttering a word. There was nothing more to be
done but for each to take his place before the fog should be completely
dissipated. Neb and Pencroft immediately ascended to Granite House and
brought back a sufficient quantity of ammunition. Gideon Spilett and
Ayrton, both very good marksmen, were armed with the two rifles,
which carried nearly a mile. The four other muskets were divided among
Harding, Neb, Pencroft, and Herbert.

The posts were arranged in the following manner:--

Cyrus Harding and Herbert remained in ambush at the Chimneys, thus
commanding the shore to the foot of Granite House.

Gideon Spilett and Neb crouched among the rocks at the mouth of the
Mercy, from which the drawbridges had been raised, so as to prevent any
one from crossing in a boat or landing on the opposite shore.

As to Ayrton and Pencroft, they shoved off in the boat, and prepared to
cross the channel and to take up two separate stations on the islet.
In this way, shots being fired from four different points at once,
the convicts would be led to believe that the island was both largely
peopled and strongly defended.

In the event of a landing being effected without their having been able
to prevent it, and also if they saw that they were on the point of being
cut off by the brig’s boat, Ayrton and Pencroft were to return in their
boat to the shore and proceed towards the threatened spot.

Before starting to occupy their posts, the colonists for the last time
wrung each other’s hands.

Pencroft succeeded in controlling himself sufficiently to suppress his
emotion when he embraced Herbert, his boy! and then they separated.

In a few moments Harding and Herbert on one side, the reporter and Neb
on the other, had disappeared behind the rocks, and five minutes later
Ayrton and Pencroft, having without difficulty crossed the channel,
disembarked on the islet and concealed themselves in the clefts of its
eastern shore.

None of them could have been seen, for they themselves could scarcely
distinguish the brig in the fog.

It was half-past six in the morning.

Soon the fog began to clear away, and the topmasts of the brig issued
from the vapor. For some minutes great masses rolled over the surface of
the sea, then a breeze sprang up, which rapidly dispelled the mist.

The “Speedy” now appeared in full view, with a spring on her cable, her
head to the north, presenting her larboard side to the island. Just as
Harding had calculated, she was not more than a mile and a quarter from
the coast.

The sinister black flag floated from the peak.

The engineer, with his telescope, could see that the four guns on board
were pointed at the island. They were evidently ready to fire at a
moment’s notice.

In the meanwhile the “Speedy” remained silent. About thirty pirates
could be seen moving on the deck. A few more on the poop; two others
posted in the shrouds, and armed with spyglasses, were attentively
surveying the island.

Certainly, Bob Harvey and his crew would not be able easily to give an
account of what had happened during the night on board the brig. Had
this half-naked man, who had forced the door of the powder-magazine, and
with whom they had struggled, who had six times discharged his revolver
at them, who had killed one and wounded two others, escaped their shot?
Had he been able to swim to shore? Whence did he come? What had been his
object? Had his design really been to blow up the brig, as Bob Harvey
had thought? All this must be confused enough to the convicts’ minds.
But what they could no longer doubt was that the unknown island before
which the “Speedy” had cast anchor was inhabited, and that there was,
perhaps, a numerous colony ready to defend it. And yet no one was to be
seen, neither on the shore, nor on the heights. The beach appeared to be
absolutely deserted. At any rate, there was no trace of dwellings. Had
the inhabitants fled into the interior? Thus probably the pirate captain
reasoned, and doubtless, like a prudent man, he wished to reconnoiter
the locality before he allowed his men to venture there.

During an hour and a half, no indication of attack or landing could be
observed on board the brig. Evidently Bob Harvey was hesitating. Even
with his strongest telescopes he could not have perceived one of the
settlers crouched among the rocks. It was not even probable that his
attention had been awakened by the screen of green branches and creepers
hiding the windows of Granite House, and showing rather conspicuously on
the bare rock. Indeed, how could he imagine that a dwelling was hollowed
out, at that height, in the solid granite? From Claw Cape to the
Mandible Capes, in all the extent of Union Bay, there was nothing to
lead him to suppose that the island was or could be inhabited.

At eight o’clock, however, the colonists observed a movement on board
the “Speedy.” A boat was lowered, and seven men jumped into her. They
were armed with muskets; one took the yoke-lines, four others the oars,
and the two others, kneeling in the bows, ready to fire, reconnoitered
the island. Their object was no doubt to make an examination but not to
land, for in the latter case they would have come in larger numbers. The
pirates from their look-out could have seen that the coast was sheltered
by an islet, separated from it by a channel half a mile in width.
However, it was soon evident to Cyrus Harding, on observing the
direction followed by the boat, that they would not attempt to penetrate
into the channel, but would land on the islet.

Pencroft and Ayrton, each hidden in a narrow cleft of the rock, saw them
coming directly towards them, and waited till they were within range.

The boat advanced with extreme caution. The oars only dipped into the
water at long intervals. It could now be seen that one of the convicts
held a lead-line in his hand, and that he wished to fathom the depth of
the channel hollowed out by the current of the Mercy. This showed that
it was Bob Harvey’s intention to bring his brig as near as possible
to the coast. About thirty pirates, scattered in the rigging, followed
every movement of the boat, and took the bearings of certain landmarks
which would allow them to approach without danger. The boat was not more
than two cables-lengths off the islet when she stopped. The man at the
tiller stood up and looked for the best place at which to land.

At that moment two shots were heard. Smoke curled up from among the
rocks of the islet. The man at the helm and the man with the lead-line
fell backwards into the boat. Ayrton’s and Pencroft’s balls had struck
them both at the same moment.

Almost immediately a louder report was heard, a cloud of smoke issued
from the brig’s side, and a ball, striking the summit of the rock which
sheltered Ayrton and Pencroft, made it fly in splinters, but the two
marksmen remained unhurt.

Horrible imprecations burst from the boat, which immediately continued
its way. The man who had been at the tiller was replaced by one of his
comrades, and the oars were rapidly plunged into the water. However,
instead of returning on board as might have been expected, the boat
coasted along the islet, so as to round its southern point. The pirates
pulled vigorously at their oars that they might get out of range of the
bullets.

They advanced to within five cables-lengths of that part of the
shore terminated by Flotsam Point, and after having rounded it in a
semicircular line, still protected by the brig’s guns, they proceeded
towards the mouth of the Mercy.

Their evident intention was to penetrate into the channel, and cut off
the colonists posted on the islet, in such a way, that whatever their
number might be, being placed between the fire from the boat and the
fire from the brig, they would find themselves in a very disadvantageous
position.

A quarter of an hour passed while the boat advanced in this direction.
Absolute silence, perfect calm reigned in the air and on the water.

Pencroft and Ayrton, although they knew they ran the risk of being
cut off, had not left their post, both that they did not wish to show
themselves as yet to their assailants, and expose themselves to the
“Speedy’s” guns, and that they relied on Neb and Gideon Spilett,
watching at the mouth of the river, and on Cyrus Harding and Herbert, in
ambush among the rocks at the Chimneys.

Twenty minutes after the first shots were fired, the boat was less than
two cables-lengths off the Mercy. As the tide was beginning to rise with
its accustomed violence, caused by the narrowness of the straits, the
pirates were drawn towards the river, and it was only by dint of hard
rowing that they were able to keep in the middle of the channel. But, as
they were passing within good range of the mouth of the Mercy, two balls
saluted them, and two more of their number were laid in the bottom of
the boat. Neb and Spilett had not missed their aim.

The brig immediately sent a second ball on the post betrayed by the
smoke, but without any other result than that of splintering the rock.

The boat now contained only three able men. Carried on by the current,
it shot through the channel with the rapidity of an arrow, passed before
Harding and Herbert, who, not thinking it within range, withheld their
fire, then, rounding the northern point of the islet with the two
remaining oars, they pulled towards the brig.

Hitherto the settlers had nothing to complain of. Their adversaries
had certainly had the worst of it. The latter already counted four men
seriously wounded if not dead; they, on the contrary, unwounded, had not
missed a shot. If the pirates continued to attack them in this way, if
they renewed their attempt to land by means of a boat, they could be
destroyed one by one.

It was now seen how advantageous the engineer’s arrangements had
been. The pirates would think that they had to deal with numerous and
well-armed adversaries, whom they could not easily get the better of.

Half an hour passed before the boat, having to pull against the current,
could get alongside the “Speedy.” Frightful cries were heard when they
returned on board with the wounded, and two or three guns were fired
with no results.

But now about a dozen other convicts, maddened with rage, and possibly
by the effect of the evening’s potations, threw themselves into the
boat. A second boat was also lowered, in which eight men took their
places, and while the first pulled straight for the islet, to dislodge
the colonists from thence the second maneuvered so as to force the
entrance of the Mercy.

The situation was evidently becoming very dangerous for Pencroft and
Ayrton, and they saw that they must regain the mainland.

However, they waited till the first boat was within range, when two
well-directed balls threw its crew into disorder. Then, Pencroft and
Ayrton, abandoning their posts, under fire from the dozen muskets, ran
across the islet at full speed, jumped into their boat, crossed the
channel at the moment the second boat reached the southern end, and ran
to hide themselves in the Chimneys.

They had scarcely rejoined Cyrus Harding and Herbert, before the islet
was overrun with pirates in every direction. Almost at the same moment,
fresh reports resounded from the Mercy station, to which the second boat
was rapidly approaching. Two, out of the eight men who manned her,
were mortally wounded by Gideon Spilett and Neb, and the boat herself,
carried irresistibly onto the reefs, was stove in at the mouth of the
Mercy. But the six survivors, holding their muskets above their heads to
preserve them from contact with the water, managed to land on the right
bank of the river. Then, finding they were exposed to the fire of the
ambush there, they fled in the direction of Flotsam Point, out of range
of the balls.

The actual situation was this: on the islet were a dozen convicts,
of whom some were no doubt wounded, but who had still a boat at their
disposal; on the island were six, but who could not by any possibility
reach Granite House, as they could not cross the river, all the bridges
being raised.

“Hallo,” exclaimed Pencroft as he rushed into the Chimneys, “hallo,
captain! What do you think of it, now?”

“I think,” answered the engineer, “that the combat will now take a new
form, for it cannot be supposed that the convicts will be so foolish as
to remain in a position so unfavorable for them!”

“They won’t cross the channel,” said the sailor. “Ayrton and Mr.
Spilett’s rifles are there to prevent them. You know that they carry
more than a mile!”

“No doubt,” replied Herbert; “but what can two rifles do against the
brig’s guns?”

“Well, the brig isn’t in the channel yet, I fancy!” said Pencroft.

“But suppose she does come there?” said Harding.

“That’s impossible, for she would risk running aground and being lost!”

“It is possible,” said Ayrton. “The convicts might profit by the high
tide to enter the channel, with the risk of grounding at low tide, it
is true; but then, under the fire from her guns, our posts would be no
longer tenable.”

“Confound them!” exclaimed Pencroft, “it really seems as if the
blackguards were preparing to weigh anchor.”

“Perhaps we shall be obliged to take refuge in Granite House!” observed
Herbert.

“We must wait!” answered Cyrus Harding.

“But Mr. Spilett and Neb?” said Pencroft.

“They will know when it is best to rejoin us. Be ready, Ayrton. It is
yours and Spilett’s rifles which must speak now.”

It was only too true. The “Speedy” was beginning to weigh her anchor,
and her intention was evidently to approach the islet. The tide would
be rising for an hour and a half, and the ebb current being already
weakened, it would be easy for the brig to advance. But as to entering
the channel, Pencroft, contrary to Ayrton’s opinion, could not believe
that she would dare to attempt it.

In the meanwhile, the pirates who occupied the islet had gradually
advanced to the opposite shore, and were now only separated from the
mainland by the channel.

Being armed with muskets alone, they could do no harm to the settlers,
in ambush at the Chimneys and the mouth of the Mercy; but, not knowing
the latter to be supplied with long-range rifles, they on their side did
not believe themselves to be exposed. Quite uncovered, therefore, they
surveyed the islet, and examined the shore.

Their illusion was of short duration. Ayrton’s and Gideon Spilett’s
rifles then spoke, and no doubt imparted some very disagreeable
intelligence to two of the convicts, for they fell backwards.

Then there was a general helter-skelter. The ten others, not even
stopping to pick up their dead or wounded companions, fled to the other
side of the islet, tumbled into the boat which had brought them, and
pulled away with all their strength.

“Eight less!” exclaimed Pencroft. “Really, one would have thought that
Mr. Spilett and Ayrton had given the word to fire together!”

“Gentlemen,” said Ayrton, as he reloaded his gun, “this is becoming more
serious. The brig is making sail!”

“The anchor is weighed!” exclaimed Pencroft.

“Yes, and she is already moving.”

In fact, they could distinctly hear the creaking of the windlass. The
“Speedy” was at first held by her anchor; then, when that had been
raised, she began to drift towards the shore. The wind was blowing
from the sea; the jib and the foretopsail were hoisted, and the vessel
gradually approached the island.

From the two posts of the Mercy and the Chimneys they watched her
without giving a sign of life, but not without some emotion. What
could be more terrible for the colonists than to be exposed, at a short
distance, to the brig’s guns, without being able to reply with any
effect? How could they then prevent the pirates from landing?

Cyrus Harding felt this strongly, and he asked himself what it would
be possible to do. Before long, he would be called upon for his
determination. But what was it to be? To shut themselves up in Granite
House, to be besieged there, to remain there for weeks, for months even,
since they had an abundance of provisions? So far good! But after that?
The pirates would not the less be masters of the island, which they
would ravage at their pleasure, and in time, they would end by having
their revenge on the prisoners in Granite House.

However, one chance yet remained; it was that Bob Harvey, after all,
would not venture his ship into the channel, and that he would keep
outside the islet. He would be still separated from the coast by half a
mile, and at that distance his shot could not be very destructive.

“Never!” repeated Pencroft, “Bob Harvey will never, if he is a good
seaman, enter that channel! He knows well that it would risk the brig,
if the sea got up ever so little! And what would become of him without
his vessel?”

In the meanwhile the brig approached the islet, and it could be seen
that she was endeavoring to make the lower end. The breeze was light,
and as the current had then lost much of its force, Bob Harvey had
absolute command over his vessel.

The route previously followed by the boats had allowed her to
reconnoiter the channel, and she boldly entered it.

The pirate’s design was now only too evident; he wished to bring her
broadside to bear on the Chimneys and from there to reply with shell and
ball to the shot which had till then decimated her crew.

Soon the “Speedy” reached the point of the islet; she rounded it with
ease; the mainsail was braced up, and the brig hugging the wind, stood
across the mouth of the Mercy.

“The scoundrels! they are coming!” said Pencroft.

At that moment, Cyrus Harding, Ayrton, the sailor, and Herbert, were
rejoined by Neb and Gideon Spilett.

The reporter and his companion had judged it best to abandon the post at
the Mercy, from which they could do nothing against the ship, and they
had acted wisely. It was better that the colonists should be together at
the moment when they were about to engage in a decisive action. Gideon
Spilett and Neb had arrived by dodging behind the rocks, though not
without attracting a shower of bullets, which had not, however, reached
them.

“Spilett! Neb!” cried the engineer. “You are not wounded?”

“No,” answered the reporter, “a few bruises only from the ricochet! But
that cursed brig has entered the channel!”

“Yes,” replied Pencroft, “and in ten minutes she will have anchored
before Granite House!”

“Have you formed any plan, Cyrus?” asked the reporter.

“We must take refuge in Granite House while there is still time, and the
convicts cannot see us.”

“That is, my opinion, too,” replied Gideon Spilett, “but once shut up--”

“We must be guided by circumstances,” said the engineer.

“Let us be off, then, and make haste!” said the reporter.

“Would you not wish, captain, that Ayrton and I should remain here?”
 asked the sailor.

“What would be the use of that, Pencroft?” replied Harding. “No. We will
not separate!”

There was not a moment to be lost. The colonists left the Chimneys. A
bend of the cliff prevented them from being seen by those in the brig,
but two or three reports, and the crash of bullets on the rock, told
them that the “Speedy” was at no great distance.

To spring into the lift, hoist themselves up to the door of Granite
House, where Top and Jup had been shut up since the evening before, to
rush into the large room, was the work of a minute only.

It was quite time, for the settlers, through the branches, could see the
“Speedy,” surrounded with smoke, gliding up the channel. The firing was
incessant, and shot from the four guns struck blindly, both on the Mercy
post, although it was not occupied, and on the Chimneys. The rocks were
splintered, and cheers accompanied each discharge. However, they
were hoping that Granite House would be spared, thanks to Harding’s
precaution of concealing the windows when a shot, piercing the door,
penetrated into the passage.

“We are discovered!” exclaimed Pencroft.

The colonists had not, perhaps, been seen, but it was certain that Bob
Harvey had thought proper to send a ball through the suspected foliage
which concealed that part of the cliff. Soon he redoubled his attack,
when another ball having torn away the leafy screen, disclosed a gaping
aperture in the granite.

The colonists’ situation was desperate. Their retreat was discovered.
They could not oppose any obstacle to these missiles, nor protect the
stone, which flew in splinters around them. There was nothing to be
done but to take refuge in the upper passage of Granite House, and leave
their dwelling to be devastated, when a deep roar was heard, followed by
frightful cries!

Cyrus Harding and his companions rushed to one of the windows--

The brig, irresistibly raised on a sort of water-spout, had just split
in two, and in less than ten seconds she was swallowed up with all her
criminal crew!



Chapter 4

“She has blown up!” cried Herbert.

“Yes! blown up, just as if Ayrton had set fire to the powder!” returned
Pencroft, throwing himself into the lift together with Neb and the lad.

“But what has happened?” asked Gideon Spilett, quite stunned by this
unexpected catastrophe.

“Oh! this time, we shall know--” answered the engineer quickly.

“What shall we know?--”

“Later! later! Come, Spilett. The main point is that these pirates have
been exterminated!”

And Cyrus Harding, hurrying away the reporter and Ayrton, joined
Pencroft, Neb, and Herbert on the beach.

Nothing could be seen of the brig, not even her masts. After having been
raised by the water-spout, she had fallen on her side, and had sunk in
that position, doubtless in consequence of some enormous leak. But as
in that place the channel was not more than twenty feet in depth, it
was certain that the sides of the submerged brig would reappear at low
water.

A few things from the wreck floated on the surface of the water, a raft
could be seen consisting of spare spars, coops of poultry with their
occupants still living, boxes and barrels, which gradually came to the
surface, after having escaped through the hatchways, but no pieces of
the wreck appeared, neither planks from the deck, nor timber from the
hull,--which rendered the sudden disappearance of the “Speedy” perfectly
inexplicable.

However, the two masts, which had been broken and escaped from the
shrouds and stays came up, and with their sails, some furled and the
others spread. But it was not necessary to wait for the tide to bring
up these riches, and Ayrton and Pencroft jumped into the boat with the
intention of towing the pieces of wreck either to the beach or to the
islet. But just as they were shoving off, an observation from Gideon
Spilett arrested them.

“What about those six convicts who disembarked on the right bank of the
Mercy?” said he.

In fact, it would not do to forget that the six men whose boat had gone
to pieces on the rocks had landed at Flotsam Point.

They looked in that direction. None of the fugitives were visible. It
was probable that, having seen their vessel engulfed in the channel,
they had fled into the interior of the island.

“We will deal with them later,” said Harding. “As they are armed, they
will still be dangerous; but as it is six against six, the chances are
equal. To the most pressing business first.”

Ayrton and Pencroft pulled vigorously towards the wreck.

The sea was calm and the tide very high, as there had been a new moon
but two days before. A whole hour at least would elapse before the hull
of the brig could emerge from the water of the channel.

Ayrton and Pencroft were able to fasten the masts and spars by means of
ropes, the ends of which were carried to the beach. There, by the united
efforts of the settlers the pieces of wreck were hauled up. Then the
boat picked up all that was floating, coops, barrels, and boxes, which
were immediately carried to the Chimneys.

Several bodies floated also. Among them, Ayrton recognized that of
Bob Harvey, which he pointed out to his companion, saying with some
emotion,--

“That is what I have been, Pencroft.”

“But what you are no longer, brave Ayrton!” returned the sailor warmly.

It was singular enough that so few bodies floated. Only five or six were
counted, which were already being carried by the current towards the
open sea. Very probably the convicts had not had time to escape, and
the ship lying over on her side, the greater number of them had remained
below. Now the current, by carrying the bodies of these miserable men
out to sea, would spare the colonists the sad task of burying them in
some corner of their island.

For two hours, Cyrus Harding and his companions were solely occupied
in hauling up the spars on to the sand, and then in spreading the sails
which were perfectly uninjured, to dry. They spoke little, for they were
absorbed in their work, but what thoughts occupied their minds!

The possession of this brig, or rather all that she contained, was
a perfect mine of wealth. In fact, a ship is like a little world in
miniature, and the stores of the colony would be increased by a large
number of useful articles. It would be, on a large scale, equivalent to
the chest found at Flotsam Point.

“And besides,” thought Pencroft, “why should it be impossible to refloat
the brig? If she has only a leak, that may be stopped up; a vessel from
three to four hundred tons, why she is a regular ship compared to our
‘Bonadventure’! And we could go a long distance in her! We could go
anywhere we liked! Captain Harding, Ayrton and I must examine her! She
would be well worth the trouble!”

In fact, if the brig was still fit to navigate, the colonists’ chances
of returning to their native land were singularly increased. But, to
decide this important question, it was necessary to wait until the tide
was quite low, so that every part of the brig’s hull might be examined.

When their treasures had been safely conveyed on shore, Harding and his
companions agreed to devote some minutes to breakfast. They were almost
famished; fortunately, the larder was not far off, and Neb was noted
for being an expeditious cook. They breakfasted, therefore, near the
Chimneys, and during their repast, as may be supposed, nothing was
talked of but the event which had so miraculously saved the colony.

“Miraculous is the word,” repeated Pencroft, “for it must be
acknowledged that those rascals blew up just at the right moment!
Granite House was beginning to be uncomfortable as a habitation!”

“And can you guess, Pencroft,” asked the reporter, “how it happened, or
what can have occasioned the explosion?”

“Oh! Mr. Spilett, nothing is more simple,” answered Pencroft. “A convict
vessel is not disciplined like a man-of-war! Convicts are not sailors.
Of course the powder-magazine was open, and as they were firing
incessantly, some careless or clumsy fellow just blew up the vessel!”

“Captain Harding,” said Herbert, “what astonishes me is that the
explosion has not produced more effect. The report was not loud, and
besides there are so few planks and timbers torn out. It seems as if the
ship had rather foundered than blown up.”

“Does that astonish you, my boy?” asked the engineer.

“Yes, captain.”

“And it astonishes me also, Herbert,” replied he, “but when we visit the
hull of the brig, we shall no doubt find the explanation of the matter.”

“Why, captain,” said Pencroft, “you don’t suppose that the ‘Speedy’
simply foundered like a ship which has struck on a rock?”

“Why not,” observed Neb, “if there are rocks in the channel?”

“Nonsense, Neb,” answered Pencroft, “you did not look at the right
moment. An instant before she sank, the brig, as I saw perfectly well,
rose on an enormous wave, and fell back on her larboard side. Now, if
she had only struck, she would have sunk quietly and gone to the bottom
like an honest vessel.”

“It was just because she was not an honest vessel!” returned Neb.

“Well, we shall soon see, Pencroft,” said the engineer.

“We shall soon see,” rejoined the sailor, “but I would wager my
head there are no rocks in the channel. Look here, captain, to speak
candidly, do you mean to say that there is anything marvelous in the
occurrence?”

Cyrus Harding did not answer.

“At any rate,” said Gideon Spilett, “whether rock or explosion, you will
agree, Pencroft, that it occurred just in the nick of time!”

“Yes! yes!” replied the sailor, “but that is not the question. I ask
Captain Harding if he sees anything supernatural in all this.”

“I cannot say, Pencroft,” said the engineer. “That is all the answer I
can make.”

A reply which did not satisfy Pencroft at all. He stuck to “an
explosion,” and did not wish to give it up. He would never consent
to admit that in that channel, with its fine sandy bed, just like
the beach, which he had often crossed at low water, there could be an
unknown rock.

And besides, at the time the brig foundered, it was high water, that is
to say, there was enough water to carry the vessel clear over any rocks
which would not be uncovered at low tide. Therefore, there could not
have been a collision. Therefore, the vessel had not struck. So she had
blown up.

And it must be confessed that the sailor’s arguments were reasonable.

Towards half-past one, the colonists embarked in the boat to visit the
wreck. It was to be regretted that the brig’s two boats had not been
saved; but one, as has been said, had gone to pieces at the mouth of the
Mercy, and was absolutely useless; the other had disappeared when the
brig went down, and had not again been seen, having doubtless been
crushed.

The hull of the “Speedy” was just beginning to issue from the water.
The brig was lying right over on her side, for her masts being broken,
pressed down by the weight of the ballast displaced by the shock, the
keel was visible along her whole length. She had been regularly turned
over by the inexplicable but frightful submarine action, which had been
at the same time manifested by an enormous water-spout.

The settlers rowed round the hull, and in proportion as the tide went
down, they could ascertain, if not the cause which had occasioned the
catastrophe, at least the effect produced.

Towards the bows, on both sides of the keel, seven or eight feet from
the beginning of the stem, the sides of the brig were frightfully torn.
Over a length of at least twenty feet there opened two large leaks,
which would be impossible to stop up. Not only had the copper sheathing
and the planks disappeared, reduced, no doubt, to powder, but also the
ribs, the iron bolts, and treenails which united them. From the entire
length of the hull to the stern the false keel had been separated with
an unaccountable violence, and the keel itself, torn from the carline in
several places, was split in all its length.

“I’ve a notion!” exclaimed Pencroft, “that this vessel will be difficult
to get afloat again.”

“It will be impossible,” said Ayrton.

“At any rate,” observed Gideon Spilett to the sailor, “the explosion,
if there has been one, has produced singular effects! It has split the
lower part of the hull, instead of blowing up the deck and topsides!
These great rents appear rather to have been made by a rock than by the
explosion of a powder-magazine.”

“There is not a rock in the channel!” answered the sailor. “I will admit
anything you like, except the rock.”

“Let us try to penetrate into the interior of the brig,” said the
engineer; “perhaps we shall then know what to think of the cause of her
destruction.”

This was the best thing to be done, and it was agreed, besides, to
take an inventory of all the treasures on board, and to arrange their
preservation.

Access to the interior of the brig was now easy. The tide was still
going down and the deck was practicable. The ballast, composed of heavy
masses of iron, had broken through in several places. The noise of the
sea could be heard as it rushed out at the holes in the hull.

Cyrus Harding and his companions, hatchets in hand, advanced along the
shattered deck. Cases of all sorts encumbered it, and, as they had
been but a very short time in the water, their contents were perhaps
uninjured.

They then busied themselves in placing all this cargo in safety. The
water would not return for several hours, and these hours must be
employed in the most profitable way. Ayrton and Pencroft had, at the
entrance made in the hull, discovered tackle, which would serve to hoist
up the barrels and chests. The boat received them and transported them
to the shore. They took the articles as they came, intending to sort
them afterwards.

At any rate, the settlers saw at once, with extreme satisfaction, that
the brig possessed a very varied cargo--an assortment of all sorts of
articles, utensils, manufactured goods, and tools--such as the ships
which make the great coasting-trade of Polynesia are usually laden with.
It was probable that they would find a little of everything, and they
agreed that it was exactly what was necessary for the colony of Lincoln
Island.

However--and Cyrus Harding observed it in silent astonishment--not only,
as has been said, had the hull of the brig enormously suffered from the
shock, whatever it was, that had occasioned the catastrophe, but the
interior arrangements had been destroyed, especially towards the bows.
Partitions and stanchions were smashed, as if some tremendous shell had
burst in the interior of the brig. The colonists could easily go fore
and aft, after having removed the cases as they were extricated. They
were not heavy bales, which would have been difficult to remove,
but simple packages, of which the stowage, besides, was no longer
recognizable.

The colonists then reached the stern of the brig--the part formerly
surmounted by the poop. It was there that, following Ayrton’s
directions, they must look for the powder-magazine. Cyrus Harding
thought that it had not exploded; that it was possible some barrels
might be saved, and that the powder, which is usually enclosed in metal
coverings might not have suffered from contact with the water.

This, in fact, was just what had happened. They extricated from among
a large number of shot twenty barrels, the insides of which were lined
with copper. Pencroft was convinced by the evidence of his own eyes that
the destruction of the “Speedy” could not be attributed to an explosion.
That part of the hull in which the magazine was situated was, moreover,
that which had suffered least.

“It may be so,” said the obstinate sailor; “but as to a rock, there is
not one in the channel!”

“Then, how did it happen?” asked Herbert.

“I don’t know,” answered Pencroft, “Captain Harding doesn’t know, and
nobody knows or ever will know!”

Several hours had passed during these researches, and the tide began to
flow. Work must be suspended for the present. There was no fear of the
brig being carried away by the sea, for she was already fixed as firmly
as if moored by her anchors.

They could, therefore, without inconvenience, wait until the next day to
resume operations; but, as to the vessel itself, she was doomed, and it
would be best to hasten to save the remains of her hull, as she would
not be long in disappearing in the quicksands of the channel.

It was now five o’clock in the evening. It had been a hard day’s work
for the men. They ate with good appetite, and notwithstanding their
fatigue, they could not resist, after dinner, their desire of inspecting
the cases which composed the cargo of the “Speedy.”

Most of them contained clothes, which, as may be believed, was well
received. There were enough to clothe a whole colony--linen for every
one’s use, shoes for every one’s feet.

“We are too rich!” exclaimed Pencroft, “But what are we going to do with
all this?”

And every moment burst forth the hurrahs of the delighted sailor when he
caught sight of the barrels of gunpowder, firearms and sidearms,
balls of cotton, implements of husbandry, carpenter’s, joiner’s, and
blacksmith’s tools, and boxes of all kinds of seeds, not in the least
injured by their short sojourn in the water. Ah, two years before,
how these things would have been prized! And now, even though the
industrious colonists had provided themselves with tools, these
treasures would find their use.

There was no want of space in the store-rooms of Granite House, but that
daytime would not allow them to stow away the whole. It would not do
also to forget that the six survivors of the “Speedy’s” crew had landed
on the island, for they were in all probability scoundrels of the
deepest dye, and it was necessary that the colonists should be on their
guard against them. Although the bridges over the Mercy were raised,
the convicts would not be stopped by a river or a stream and, rendered
desperate, these wretches would be capable of anything.

They would see later what plan it would be best to follow; but in the
meantime it was necessary to mount guard over cases and packages heaped
up near the Chimneys, and thus the settlers employed themselves in turn
during the night.

The morning came, however, without the convicts having attempted any
attack. Master Jup and Top, on guard at the foot of Granite House, would
have quickly given the alarm. The three following days--the 19th, 20th,
and 21st of October--were employed in saving everything of value, or of
any use whatever, either from the cargo or rigging of the brig. At low
tide they overhauled the hold--at high tide they stowed away the rescued
articles. A great part of the copper sheathing had been torn from the
hull, which every day sank lower. But before the sand had swallowed the
heavy things which had fallen through the bottom, Ayrton and Pencroft,
diving to the bed of the channel, recovered the chains and anchors of
the brig, the iron of her ballast, and even four guns, which, floated by
means of empty casks, were brought to shore.

It may be seen that the arsenal of the colony had gained by the
wreck, as well as the storerooms of Granite House. Pencroft, always
enthusiastic in his projects, already spoke of constructing a battery
to command the channel and the mouth of the river. With four guns,
he engaged to prevent any fleet, “however powerful it might be,” from
venturing into the waters of Lincoln Island!

In the meantime, when nothing remained of the brig but a useless hulk,
bad weather came on, which soon finished her. Cyrus Harding had intended
to blow her up, so as to collect the remains on the shore, but a strong
gale from the northeast and a heavy sea compelled him to economize his
powder.

In fact, on the night of the 23rd, the hull entirely broke up, and some
of the wreck was cast up on the beach.

As to the papers on board, it is useless to say that, although he
carefully searched the lockers of the poop, Harding did not discover
any trace of them. The pirates had evidently destroyed everything that
concerned either the captain or the owners of the “Speedy,” and, as the
name of her port was not painted on her counter, there was nothing which
would tell them her nationality. However, by the shape of her boats
Ayrton and Pencroft believed that the brig was of English build.

A week after the castrophe--or, rather, after the fortunate, though
inexplicable, event to which the colony owed its preservation--nothing
more could be seen of the vessel, even at low tide. The wreck had
disappeared, and Granite House was enriched by nearly all it had
contained.

However, the mystery which enveloped its strange destruction would
doubtless never have been cleared away if, on the 30th of November, Neb,
strolling on the beach, had not found a piece of a thick iron cylinder,
bearing traces of explosion. The edges of this cylinder were twisted and
broken, as if they had been subjected to the action of some explosive
substance.

Neb brought this piece of metal to his master, who was then occupied
with his companions in the workshop of the Chimneys.

Cyrus Harding examined the cylinder attentively, then, turning to
Pencroft,--

“You persist, my friend,” said he, “in maintaining that the ‘Speedy’ was
not lost in consequence of a collision?”

“Yes, captain,” answered the sailor. “You know as well as I do that
there are no rocks in the channel.”

“But suppose she had run against this piece of iron?” said the engineer,
showing the broken cylinder.

“What, that bit of pipe!” exclaimed Pencroft in a tone of perfect
incredulity.

“My friends,” resumed Harding, “you remember that before she foundered
the brig rose on the summit of a regular waterspout?”

“Yes, captain,” replied Herbert.

“Well, would you like to know what occasioned that waterspout? It was
this,” said the engineer, holding up the broken tube.

“That?” returned Pencroft.

“Yes! This cylinder is all that remains of a torpedo!”

“A torpedo!” exclaimed the engineer’s companions.

“And who put the torpedo there?” demanded Pencroft, who did not like to
yield.

“All that I can tell you is, that it was not I,” answered Cyrus Harding;
“but it was there, and you have been able to judge of its incomparable
power!”



Chapter 5

So, then, all was explained by the submarine explosion of this torpedo.
Cyrus Harding could not be mistaken, as, during the war of the Union,
he had had occasion to try these terrible engines of destruction. It
was under the action of this cylinder, charged with some explosive
substance, nitro-glycerine, picrate, or some other material of the same
nature, that the water of the channel had been raised like a dome, the
bottom of the brig crushed in, and she had sunk instantly, the damage
done to her hull being so considerable that it was impossible to refloat
her. The “Speedy” had not been able to withstand a torpedo that would
have destroyed an ironclad as easily as a fishing-boat!

Yes! all was explained, everything--except the presence of the torpedo
in the waters of the channel!

“My friends, then,” said Cyrus Harding, “we can no longer be in doubt
as to the presence of a mysterious being, a castaway like us, perhaps,
abandoned on our island, and I say this in order that Ayrton may be
acquainted with all the strange events which have occurred during these
two years. Who this beneficent stranger is, whose intervention has, so
fortunately for us, been manifested on many occasions, I cannot imagine.
What his object can be in acting thus, in concealing himself after
rendering us so many services, I cannot understand: But his services are
not the less real, and are of such a nature that only a man possessed of
prodigious power, could render them. Ayrton is indebted to him as much
as we are, for, if it was the stranger who saved me from the waves after
the fall from the balloon, evidently it was he who wrote the document,
who placed the bottle in the channel, and who has made known to us the
situation of our companion. I will add that it was he who guided that
chest, provided with everything we wanted, and stranded it on Flotsam
Point; that it was he who lighted that fire on the heights of the
island, which permitted you to land; that it was he who fired that
bullet found in the body of the peccary; that it was he who plunged that
torpedo into the channel, which destroyed the brig; in a word, that all
those inexplicable events, for which we could not assign a reason, are
due to this mysterious being. Therefore, whoever he may be, whether
shipwrecked, or exiled on our island, we shall be ungrateful, if we
think ourselves freed from gratitude towards him. We have contracted a
debt, and I hope that we shall one day pay it.”

“You are right in speaking thus, my dear Cyrus,” replied Gideon Spilett.
“Yes, there is an almost all-powerful being, hidden in some part of the
island, and whose influence has been singularly useful to our colony.
I will add that the unknown appears to possess means of action which
border on the supernatural, if in the events of practical life the
supernatural were recognizable. Is it he who is in secret communication
with us by the well in Granite House, and has he thus a knowledge of all
our plans? Was it he who threw us that bottle, when the vessel made her
first cruise? Was it he who threw Top out of the lake, and killed the
dugong? Was it he, who as everything leads us to believe, saved you from
the waves, and that under circumstances in which any one else would not
have been able to act? If it was he, he possesses a power which renders
him master of the elements.”

The reporter’s reasoning was just, and every one felt it to be so.

“Yes,” rejoined Cyrus Harding, “if the intervention of a human being is
not more questionable for us, I agree that he has at his disposal means
of action beyond those possessed by humanity. There is a mystery still,
but if we discover the man, the mystery will be discovered also. The
question, then, is, ought we to respect the incognito of this generous
being, or ought we to do everything to find him out? What is your
opinion on the matter?”

“My opinion,” said Pencroft, “is that, whoever he may be, he is a brave
man, and he has my esteem!”

“Be it so,” answered Harding, “but that is not an answer, Pencroft.”

“Master,” then said Neb, “my idea is, that we may search as long as we
like for this gentleman whom you are talking about, but that we shall
not discover him till he pleases.”

“That’s not bad, what you say, Neb,” observed Pencroft.

“I am of Neb’s opinion,” said Gideon Spilett, “but that is no reason for
not attempting the adventure. Whether we find this mysterious being or
not, we shall at least have fulfilled our duty towards him.”

“And you, my boy, give us your opinion,” said the engineer, turning to
Herbert.

“Oh,” cried Herbert, his countenance full of animation, “how I should
like to thank him, he who saved you first, and who has now saved us!”

“Of course, my boy,” replied Pencroft, “so would I and all of us. I am
not inquisitive, but I would give one of my eyes to see this individual
face to face! It seems to me that he must be handsome, tall, strong,
with a splendid beard, radiant hair, and that he must be seated on
clouds, a great ball in his hands!”

“But, Pencroft,” answered Spilett, “you are describing a picture of the
Creator.”

“Possibly, Mr. Spilett,” replied the sailor, “but that is how I imagine
him!”

“And you, Ayrton?” asked the engineer.

“Captain Harding,” replied Ayrton, “I can give you no better advice in
this matter. Whatever you do will be best; when you wish me to join you
in your researches, I am ready to follow you.

“I thank you, Ayrton,” answered Cyrus Harding, “but I should like a more
direct answer to the question I put to you. You are our companion; you
have already endangered your life several times for us, and you, as
well as the rest, ought to be consulted in the matter of any important
decision. Speak, therefore.”

“Captain Harding,” replied Ayrton, “I think that we ought to do
everything to discover this unknown benefactor. Perhaps he is alone.
Perhaps he is suffering. Perhaps he has a life to be renewed. I, too,
as you said, have a debt of gratitude to pay him. It was he, it could be
only he who must have come to Tabor Island, who found there the wretch
you knew, and who made known to you that there was an unfortunate man
there to be saved. Therefore it is, thanks to him, that I have become a
man again. No, I will never forget him!”

“That is settled, then,” said Cyrus Harding. “We will begin our
researches as soon as possible. We will not leave a corner of the island
unexplored. We will search into its most secret recesses, and will
hope that our unknown friend will pardon us in consideration of our
intentions!”

For several days the colonists were actively employed in haymaking and
the harvest. Before putting their project of exploring the yet unknown
parts of the island into execution, they wished to get all possible work
finished. It was also the time for collecting the various vegetables
from the Tabor Island plants. All was stowed away, and happily there was
no want of room in Granite House, in which they might have housed all
the treasures of the island. The products of the colony were there,
methodically arranged, and in a safe place, as may be believed,
sheltered as much from animals as from man.

There was no fear of damp in the middle of that thick mass of granite.
Many natural excavations situated in the upper passage were enlarged
either by pick-axe or mine, and Granite House thus became a general
warehouse, containing all the provisions, arms, tools, and spare
utensils--in a word, all the stores of the colony.

As to the guns obtained from the brig, they were pretty pieces of
ordnance, which, at Pencroft’s entreaty, were hoisted by means of tackle
and pulleys, right up into Granite House; embrasures were made between
the windows, and the shining muzzles of the guns could soon be seen
through the granite cliff. From this height they commanded all Union
Bay. It was like a little Gibraltar, and any vessel anchored off the
islet would inevitably be exposed to the fire of this aerial battery.

“Captain,” said Pencroft one day, it was the 8th of November, “now that
our fortifications are finished, it would be a good thing if we tried
the range of our guns.”

“Do you think that is useful?” asked the engineer.

“It is more than useful, it is necessary! Without that how are we to
know to what distance we can send one of those pretty shot with which we
are provided?”

“Try them, Pencroft,” replied the engineer. “However, I think that in
making the experiment, we ought to employ, not the ordinary powder,
the supply of which, I think, should remain untouched, but the pyroxyle
which will never fail us.”

“Can the cannon support the shock of the pyroxyle?” asked the reporter,
who was not less anxious than Pencroft to try the artillery of Granite
House.

“I believe so. However,” added the engineer, “we will be prudent.” The
engineer was right in thinking that the guns were of excellent make.
Made of forged steel, and breech-loaders, they ought consequently to be
able to bear a considerable charge, and also have an enormous range.
In fact, as regards practical effect, the transit described by the ball
ought to be as extended as possible, and this tension could only be
obtained under the condition that the projectile should be impelled with
a very great initial velocity.

“Now,” said Harding to his companions, “the initial velocity is in
proportion to the quantity of powder used. In the fabrication of
these pieces, everything depends on employing a metal with the highest
possible power of resistance, and steel is incontestably that metal of
all others which resists the best. I have, therefore, reason to believe
that our guns will bear without risk the expansion of the pyroxyle gas,
and will give excellent results.”

“We shall be a great deal more certain of that when we have tried them!”
 answered Pencroft.

It is unnecessary to say that the four cannons were in perfect order.
Since they had been taken from the water, the sailor had bestowed great
care upon them. How many hours he had spent, in rubbing, greasing, and
polishing them, and in cleaning the mechanism! And now the pieces were
as brilliant as if they had been on board a frigate of the United States
Navy.

On this day, therefore, in presence of all the members of the colony,
including Master Jup and Top, the four cannon were successively tried.
They were charged with pyroxyle, taking into consideration its explosive
power, which, as has been said, is four times that of ordinary powder:
the projectile to be fired was cylindroconic.

Pencroft, holding the end of the quick-match, stood ready to fire.

At Harding’s signal, he fired. The shot, passing over the islet,
fell into the sea at a distance which could not be calculated with
exactitude.

The second gun was pointed at the rocks at the end of Flotsam Point, and
the shot striking a sharp rock nearly three miles from Granite House,
made it fly into splinters. It was Herbert who had pointed this gun and
fired it, and very proud he was of his first shot. Pencroft only was
prouder than he! Such a shot, the honor of which belonged to his dear
boy.

The third shot, aimed this time at the downs forming the upper side
of Union Bay, struck the sand at a distance of four miles, then having
ricocheted: was lost in the sea in a cloud of spray.

For the fourth piece Cyrus Harding slightly increased the charge, so
as to try its extreme range. Then, all standing aside for fear of its
bursting, the match was lighted by means of a long cord.

A tremendous report was heard, but the piece had held good, and the
colonists rushing to the windows, saw the shot graze the rocks of
Mandible Cape, nearly five miles from Granite House, and disappear in
Shark Gulf.

“Well, captain,” exclaimed Pencroft, whose cheers might have rivaled the
reports themselves, “what do you say of our battery? All the pirates in
the Pacific have only to present themselves before Granite House! Not
one can land there now without our permission!”

“Believe me, Pencroft,” replied the engineer, “it would be better not to
have to make the experiment.”

“Well,” said the sailor, “what ought to be done with regard to those
six villains who are roaming about the island? Are we to leave them
to overrun our forests, our fields, our plantations? These pirates are
regular jaguars, and it seems to me we ought not to hesitate to treat
them as such! What do you think, Ayrton?” added Pencroft, turning to his
companion.

Ayrton hesitated at first to reply, and Cyrus Harding regretted that
Pencroft had so thoughtlessly put this question. And he was much moved
when Ayrton replied in a humble tone,--

“I have been one of those jaguars, Mr. Pencroft. I have no right to
speak.”

And with a slow step he walked away.

Pencroft understood.

“What a brute I am!” he exclaimed. “Poor Ayrton! He has as much right to
speak here as any one!”

“Yes,” said Gideon Spilett, “but his reserve does him honor, and it is
right to respect the feeling which he has about his sad past.”

“Certainly, Mr. Spilett,” answered the sailor, “and there is no fear of
my doing so again. I would rather bite my tongue off than cause Ayrton
any pain! But to return to the question. It seems to me that these
ruffians have no right to any pity, and that we ought to rid the island
of them as soon as possible.”

“Is that your opinion, Pencroft?” asked the engineer.

“Quite my opinion.”

“And before hunting them mercilessly, you would not wait until they had
committed some fresh act of hostility against us?”

“Isn’t what they have done already enough?” asked Pencroft, who did not
understand these scruples.

“They may adopt other sentiments!” said Harding, “and perhaps repent.”

“They repent!” exclaimed the sailor, shrugging his shoulders.

“Pencroft, think of Ayrton!” said Herbert, taking the sailor’s hand. “He
became an honest man again!”

Pencroft looked at his companions one after the other. He had never
thought of his proposal being met with any objection. His rough nature
could not allow that they ought to come to terms with the rascals who
had landed on the island with Bob Harvey’s accomplices, the murderers of
the crew of the “Speedy,” and he looked upon them as wild beasts which
ought to be destroyed without delay and without remorse.

“Come!” said be. “Everybody is against me! You wish to be generous to
those villains! Very well; I hope we mayn’t repent it!”

“What danger shall we run,” said Herbert, “if we take care to be always
on our guard?”

“Hum!” observed the reporter, who had not given any decided opinion.
“They are six and well armed. If they each lay hid in a corner, and each
fired at one of us, they would soon be masters of the colony!”

“Why have they not done so?” said Herbert. “No doubt because it was not
their interest to do it. Besides, we are six also.”

“Well, well!” replied Pencroft, whom no reasoning could have convinced.
“Let us leave these good people to do what they like, and don’t think
anything more about them!”

“Come, Pencroft,” said Neb, “don’t make yourself out so bad as all that!
Suppose one of these unfortunate men were here before you, within good
range of your guns, you would not fire.”

“I would fire on him as I would on a mad dog, Neb,” replied Pencroft
coldly.

“Pencroft,” said the engineer, “you have always shown much deference to
my advice; will you, in this matter, yield to me?”

“I will do as you please, Captain Harding,” answered the sailor, who was
not at all convinced.

“Very well, wait, and we will not attack them unless we are attacked
first.”

Thus their behavior towards the pirates was agreed upon, although
Pencroft augured nothing good from it. They were not to attack them, but
were to be on their guard. After all, the island was large and fertile.
If any sentiment of honesty yet remained in the bottom of their hearts,
these wretches might perhaps be reclaimed. Was it not their interest in
the situation in which they found themselves to begin a new life? At
any rate, for humanity’s sake alone, it would be right to wait. The
colonists would no longer as before, be able to go and come without
fear. Hitherto they had only wild beasts to guard against, and now six
convicts of the worst description, perhaps, were roaming over their
island. It was serious, certainly, and to less brave men, it would have
been security lost! No matter! At present, the colonists had reason on
their side against Pencroft. Would they be right in the future? That
remained to be seen.



Chapter 6

However, the chief business of the colonists was to make that complete
exploration of the island which had been decided upon, and which would
have two objects: to discover the mysterious being whose existence was
now indisputable, and at the same time to find out what had become of
the pirates, what retreat they had chosen, what sort of life they were
leading, and what was to be feared from them. Cyrus Harding wished
to set out without delay; but as the expedition would be of some days
duration, it appeared best to load the cart with different materials and
tools in order to facilitate the organization of the encampments. One
of the onagers, however, having hurt its leg, could not be harnessed
at present, and a few days’ rest was necessary. The departure was,
therefore, put off for a week, until the 20th of November. The month
of November in this latitude corresponds to the month of May in the
northern zones. It was, therefore, the fine season. The sun was entering
the tropic of Capricorn, and gave the longest days in the year. The time
was, therefore, very favorable for the projected expedition, which,
if it did not accomplish its principal object, would at any rate be
fruitful in discoveries, especially of natural productions, since
Harding proposed to explore those dense forests of the Far West, which
stretched to the extremity of the Serpentine Peninsula.

During the nine days which preceded their departure, it was agreed that
the work on Prospect Heights should be finished off.

Moreover, it was necessary for Ayrton to return to the corral, where the
domesticated animals required his care. It was decided that he should
spend two days there, and return to Granite House after having liberally
supplied the stables.

As he was about to start, Harding asked him if he would not like one
of them to accompany him, observing that the island was less safe than
formerly. Ayrton replied that this was unnecessary, as he was enough
for the work, and that besides he apprehended no danger. If anything
occurred at the corral, or in the neighborhood, he could instantly warn
the colonists by sending a telegram to Granite House.

Ayrton departed at dawn on the 9th, taking the cart drawn by one onager,
and two hours after, the electric wire announced that he had found all
in order at the corral.

During these two days Harding busied himself in executing a project
which would completely guard Granite House against any surprise. It was
necessary to completely conceal the opening of the old outlet, which
was already walled up and partly hidden under grass and plants, at the
southern angle of Lake Grant. Nothing was easier, since if the level
of the lake was raised two or three feet, the opening would be quite
beneath it. Now, to raise this level they had only to establish a dam at
the two openings made by the lake, and by which were fed Creek Glycerine
and Falls River.

The colonists worked with a will, and the two dams which besides did not
exceed eight feet in width by three in height, were rapidly erected by
means of well-cemented blocks of stone.

This work finished, it would have been impossible to guess that at that
part of the lake, there existed a subterranean passage through which the
overflow of the lake formerly escaped.

Of course the little stream which fed the reservoir of Granite House and
worked the lift, had been carefully preserved, and the water could not
fail. The lift once raised, this sure and comfortable retreat would be
safe from any surprise.

This work had been so quickly done, that Pencroft, Gideon Spilett, and
Herbert found time to make an expedition to Port Balloon, The sailor was
very anxious to know if the little creek in which the “Bonadventure” was
moored, had been visited by the convicts.

“These gentlemen,” he observed, “landed on the south coast, and if they
followed the shore, it is to be feared that they may have discovered the
little harbor, and in that case, I wouldn’t give half-a-dollar for our
‘Bonadventure.’”

Pencroft’s apprehensions were not without foundation, and a visit
to Port Balloon appeared to be very desirable. The sailor and his
companions set off on the 10th of November, after dinner, well armed.
Pencroft, ostentatiously slipping two bullets into each barrel of his
rifle, shook his head in a way which betokened nothing good to any one
who approached too near him, whether “man or beast,” as he said. Gideon
Spilett and Herbert also took their guns, and about three o’clock all
three left Granite House.

Neb accompanied them to the turn of the Mercy, and after they had
crossed, he raised the bridge. It was agreed that a gunshot should
announce the colonists’ return, and that at the signal Neb should return
and reestablish the communication between the two banks of the river.

The little band advanced directly along the road which led to the
southern coast of the island. This was only a distance of three miles
and a half, but Gideon Spilett and his companions took two hours to
traverse it. They examined all the border of the road, the thick forest,
as well as Tabor Marsh. They found no trace of the fugitives who, no
doubt, not having yet discovered the number of the colonists, or the
means of defense which they had at their disposal, had gained the less
accessible parts of the island.

Arrived at Port Balloon, Pencroft saw with extreme satisfaction that
the “Bonadventure” was tranquilly floating in the narrow creek. However,
Port Balloon was so well hidden among high rocks, that it could scarcely
be discovered either from the land or the sea.

“Come,” said Pencroft, “the blackguards have not been there yet. Long
grass suits reptiles best, and evidently we shall find them in the Far
West.”

“And it’s very lucky, for if they had found the ‘Bonadventure’,” added
Herbert, “they would have gone off in her, and we should have been
prevented from returning to Tabor Island.”

“Indeed,” remarked the reporter, “it will be important to take a
document there which will make known the situation of Lincoln Island,
and Ayrton’s new residence, in case the Scotch yacht returns to fetch
him.”

“Well, the ‘Bonadventure’ is always there, Mr. Spilett,” answered the
sailor. “She and her crew are ready to start at a moment’s notice!”

“I think, Pencroft, that that is a thing to be done after our
exploration of the island is finished. It is possible after all that the
stranger, if we manage to find him, may know as much about Tabor Island
as about Lincoln Island. Do not forget that he is certainly the author
of the document, and he may, perhaps, know how far we may count on the
return of the yacht!”

“But!” exclaimed Pencroft, “who in the world can he be? The fellow knows
us and we know nothing about him! If he is a simple castaway, why should
he conceal himself! We are honest men, I suppose, and the society of
honest men isn’t unpleasant to any one. Did he come here voluntarily?
Can he leave the island if he likes? Is he here still? Will he remain
any longer?”

Chatting thus, Pencroft, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert got on board and
looked about the deck of the “Bonadventure.” All at once, the sailor
having examined the bitts to which the cable of the anchor was
secured,--

“Hallo,” he cried, “this is queer!”

“What is the matter, Pencroft?” asked the reporter.

“The matter is, that it was not I who made this knot!”

And Pencroft showed a rope which fastened the cable to the bitt itself.

“What, it was not you?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“No! I can swear to it. This is a reef knot, and I always make a running
bowline.”

“You must be mistaken, Pencroft.”

“I am not mistaken!” declared the sailor. “My hand does it so naturally,
and one’s hand is never mistaken!”

“Then can the convicts have been on board?” asked Herbert.

“I know nothing about that,” answered Pencroft, “but what is certain,
is that some one has weighed the ‘Bonadventure’s’ anchor and dropped it
again! And look here, here is another proof! The cable of the anchor has
been run out, and its service is no longer at the hawse-hole. I repeat
that some one has been using our vessel!”

“But if the convicts had used her, they would have pillaged her, or
rather gone off with her.”

“Gone off! where to--to Tabor Island?” replied Pencroft. “Do you think,
they would risk themselves in a boat of such small tonnage?”

“We must, besides, be sure that they know of the islet,” rejoined the
reporter.

“However that may be,” said the sailor, “as sure as my name is
Bonadventure Pencroft, of the Vineyard, our ‘Bonadventure’ has sailed
without us!”

The sailor was positive that neither Gideon Spilett nor Herbert could
dispute his statement. It was evident that the vessel had been moved,
more or less, since Pencroft had brought her to Port Balloon. As to the
sailor, he had not the slightest doubt that the anchor had been raised
and then dropped again. Now, what was the use of these two maneuvers,
unless the vessel had been employed in some expedition?

“But how was it we did not see the ‘Bonadventure’ pass in the sight of
the island?” observed the reporter, who was anxious to bring forward
every possible objection.

“Why, Mr. Spilett,” replied the sailor, “they would only have to start
in the night with a good breeze, and they would be out of sight of the
island in two hours.”

“Well,” resumed Gideon Spilett, “I ask again, what object could the
convicts have had in using the ‘Bonadventure,’ and why, after they had
made use of her, should they have brought her back to port?”

“Why, Mr. Spilett,” replied the sailor, “we must put that among the
unaccountable things, and not think anything more about it. The chief
thing is that the ‘Bonadventure’ was there, and she is there now. Only,
unfortunately, if the convicts take her a second time, we shall very
likely not find her again in her place!”

“Then, Pencroft,” said Herbert, “would it not be wisest to bring the
‘Bonadventure’ off to Granite House?”

“Yes and no,” answered Pencroft, “or rather no. The mouth of the Mercy
is a bad place for a vessel, and the sea is heavy there.”

“But by hauling her up on the sand, to the foot of the Chimneys?”

“Perhaps yes,” replied Pencroft. “At any rate, since we must leave
Granite House for a long expedition, I think the ‘Bonadventure’ will be
safer here during our absence, and we shall do best to leave her here
until the island is rid of these blackguards.”

“That is exactly my opinion,” said the reporter. “At any rate in the
event of bad weather, she will not be exposed here as she would be at
the mouth of the Mercy.”

“But suppose the convicts pay her another visit,” said Herbert.

“Well, my boy,” replied Pencroft, “not finding her here, they would not
be long in finding her on the sands of Granite House, and, during our
absence, nothing could hinder them from seizing her! I agree, therefore,
with Mr. Spilett, that she must be left in Port Balloon. But, if on our
return we have not rid the island of those rascals, it will be prudent
to bring our boat to Granite House, until the time when we need not fear
any unpleasant visits.”

“That’s settled. Let us be off,” said the reporter.

Pencroft, Herbert, and Gideon Spilett, on their return to Granite House,
told the engineer all that had passed, and the latter approved of their
arrangements both for the present and the future. He also promised the
sailor that he would study that part of the channel situated between the
islet and the coast, so as to ascertain if it would not be possible
to make an artificial harbor there by means of dams. In this way, the
“Bonadventure” would be always within reach, under the eyes of the
colonists, and if necessary, under lock and key.

That evening a telegram was sent to Ayrton, requesting him to bring from
the corral a couple of goats, which Neb wished to acclimatize to the
plateau. Singularly enough, Ayrton did not acknowledge the receipt of
the despatch, as he was accustomed to do. This could not but astonish
the engineer. But it might be that Ayrton was not at that moment in the
corral, or even that he was on his way back to Granite House. In fact,
two days had already passed since his departure, and it had been decided
that on the evening of the 10th or at the latest the morning of the
11th, he should return. The colonists waited, therefore, for Ayrton to
appear on Prospect Heights. Neb and Herbert even watched at the bridge
so as to be ready to lower it the moment their companion presented
himself.

But up to ten in the evening, there were no signs of Ayrton. It was,
therefore, judged best to send a fresh despatch, requiring an immediate
reply.

The bell of the telegraph at Granite House remained mute.

The colonists’ uneasiness was great. What had happened? Was Ayrton no
longer at the corral, or if he was still there, had he no longer control
over his movements? Could they go to the corral in this dark night?

They consulted. Some wished to go, the others to remain.

“But,” said Herbert, “perhaps some accident has happened to the
telegraphic apparatus, so that it works no longer?”

“That may be,” said the reporter.

“Wait till to-morrow,” replied Cyrus Harding. “It is possible, indeed,
that Ayrton has not received our despatch, or even that we have not
received his.”

They waited, of course not without some anxiety.

At dawn of day, the 11th of November, Harding again sent the electric
current along the wire and received no reply.

He tried again: the same result.

“Off to the corral,” said he.

“And well armed!” added Pencroft.

It was immediately decided that Granite House should not be left alone
and that Neb should remain there. After having accompanied his friends
to Creek Glycerine, he raised the bridge; and waiting behind a tree he
watched for the return of either his companions or Ayrton.

In the event of the pirates presenting themselves and attempting to
force the passage, he was to endeavor to stop them by firing on them,
and as a last resource he was to take refuge in Granite House, where,
the lift once raised, he would be in safety.

Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, and Pencroft were to repair
to the corral, and if they did not find Ayrton, search the neighboring
woods.

At six o’clock in the morning, the engineer and his three companions
had passed Creek Glycerine, and Neb posted himself behind a small mound
crowned by several dragon trees, on the left bank of the stream.

The colonists, after leaving the plateau of Prospect Heights,
immediately took the road to the corral. They shouldered their guns,
ready to fire on the slightest hostile demonstration. The two rifles and
the two guns had been loaded with ball.

The wood was thick on each side of the road and might easily have
concealed the convicts, who owing to their weapons would have been
really formidable.

The colonists walked rapidly and in silence. Top preceded them,
sometimes running on the road, sometimes taking a ramble into the wood,
but always quiet and not appearing to fear anything unusual. And
they could be sure that the faithful dog would not allow them to be
surprised, but would bark at the least appearance of danger.

Cyrus Harding and his companions followed beside the road the wire which
connected the corral with Granite House. After walking for nearly two
miles, they had not as yet discovered any explanation of the difficulty.
The posts were in good order, the wire regularly extended. However, at
that moment the engineer observed that the wire appeared to be slack,
and on arriving at post No. 74, Herbert, who was in advance stopped,
exclaiming,--

“The wire is broken!”

His companions hurried forward and arrived at the spot where the lad
was standing. The post was rooted up and lying across the path. The
unexpected explanation of the difficulty was here, and it was evident
that the despatches from Granite House had not been received at the
corral, nor those from the corral at Granite House.

“It wasn’t the wind that blew down this post,” observed Pencroft.

“No,” replied Gideon Spilett. “The earth has been dug up round its foot,
and it has been torn up by the hand of man.”

“Besides, the wire is broken,” added Herbert, showing that the wire had
been snapped.

“Is the fracture recent?” asked Harding.

“Yes,” answered Herbert, “it has certainly been done quite lately.”

“To the corral! to the corral!” exclaimed the sailor.

The colonists were now half way between Granite House and the corral,
having still two miles and a half to go. They pressed forward with
redoubled speed.

Indeed, it was to be feared that some serious accident had occurred in
the corral. No doubt, Ayrton might have sent a telegram which had not
arrived, but this was not the reason why his companions were so uneasy,
for, a more unaccountable circumstance, Ayrton, who had promised to
return the evening before, had not reappeared. In short, it was not
without a motive that all communication had been stopped between the
corral and Granite House, and who but the convicts could have any
interest in interrupting this communication?

The settlers hastened on, their hearts oppressed with anxiety. They were
sincerely attached to their new companion. Were they to find him struck
down by the hands of those of whom he was formerly the leader?

Soon they arrived at the place where the road led along the side of the
little stream which flowed from the Red Creek and watered the meadows
of the corral. They then moderated their pace so that they should not
be out of breath at the moment when a struggle might be necessary. Their
guns were in their hands ready cocked. The forest was watched on every
side. Top uttered sullen groans which were rather ominous.

At last the palisade appeared through the trees. No trace of any damage
could be seen. The gate was shut as usual. Deep silence reigned in the
corral. Neither the accustomed bleating of the sheep nor Ayrton’s voice
could be heard.

“Let us enter,” said Cyrus Harding.

And the engineer advanced, while his companions, keeping watch about
twenty paces behind him, were ready to fire at a moment’s notice.

Harding raised the inner latch of the gate and was about to push it
back, when Top barked loudly. A report sounded and was responded to by a
cry of pain.

Herbert, struck by a bullet, lay stretched on the ground.



Chapter 7


At Herbert’s cry, Pencroft, letting his gun fall, rushed towards him.

“They have killed him!” he cried. “My boy! They have killed him!”

Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett ran to Herbert.

The reporter listened to ascertain if the poor lad’s heart was still
beating.

“He lives,” said he, “but he must be carried--”

“To Granite House? that is impossible!” replied the engineer.

“Into the corral, then!” said Pencroft.

“In a moment,” said Harding.

And he ran round the left corner of the palisade. There he found a
convict, who aiming at him, sent a ball through his hat. In a few
seconds, before he had even time to fire his second barrel, he fell,
struck to the heart by Harding’s dagger, more sure even than his gun.

During this time, Gideon Spilett and the sailor hoisted themselves over
the palisade, leaped into the enclosure, threw down the props which
supported the inner door, ran into the empty house, and soon, poor
Herbert was lying on Ayrton’s bed. In a few moments, Harding was by his
side.

On seeing Herbert senseless, the sailor’s grief was terrible.

He sobbed, he cried, he tried to beat his head against the wall.

Neither the engineer nor the reporter could calm him. They themselves
were choked with emotion. They could not speak.

However, they knew that it depended on them to rescue from death the
poor boy who was suffering beneath their eyes. Gideon Spilett had not
passed through the many incidents by which his life had been checkered
without acquiring some slight knowledge of medicine. He knew a little
of everything, and several times he had been obliged to attend to wounds
produced either by a sword-bayonet or shot. Assisted by Cyrus Harding,
he proceeded to render the aid Herbert required.

The reporter was immediately struck by the complete stupor in which
Herbert lay, a stupor owing either to the hemorrhage, or to the shock,
the ball having struck a bone with sufficient force to produce a violent
concussion.

Herbert was deadly pale, and his pulse so feeble that Spilett only felt
it beat at long intervals, as if it was on the point of stopping.

These symptoms were very serious.

Herbert’s chest was laid bare, and the blood having been stanched with
handkerchiefs, it was bathed with cold water.

The contusion, or rather the contused wound appeared,--an oval below the
chest between the third and fourth ribs. It was there that Herbert had
been hit by the bullet.

Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett then turned the poor boy over; as they
did so, he uttered a moan so feeble that they almost thought it was his
last sigh.

Herberts back was covered with blood from another contused wound, by
which the ball had immediately escaped.

“God be praised!” said the reporter, “the ball is not in the body, and
we shall not have to extract it.”

“But the heart?” asked Harding.

“The heart has not been touched; if it had been, Herbert would be dead!”

“Dead!” exclaimed Pencroft, with a groan.

The sailor had only heard the last words uttered by the reporter.

“No, Pencroft,” replied Cyrus Harding, “no! He is not dead. His pulse
still beats. He has even uttered a moan. But for your boy’s sake, calm
yourself. We have need of all our self-possession.”

“Do not make us lose it, my friend.”

Pencroft was silent, but a reaction set in, and great tears rolled down
his cheeks.

In the meanwhile, Gideon Spilett endeavored to collect his ideas, and
proceed methodically. After his examination he had no doubt that the
ball, entering in front, between the seventh and eighth ribs, had issued
behind between the third and fourth. But what mischief had the ball
committed in its passage? What important organs had been reached? A
professional surgeon would have had difficulty in determining this at
once, and still more so the reporter.

However, he knew one thing, this was that he would have to prevent the
inflammatory strangulation of the injured parts, then to contend with
the local inflammation and fever which would result from the wound,
perhaps mortal! Now, what styptics, what antiphlogistics ought to be
employed? By what means could inflammation be prevented?

At any rate, the most important thing was that the two wounds should
be dressed without delay. It did not appear necessary to Gideon Spilett
that a fresh flow of blood should be caused by bathing them in tepid
water, and compressing their lips. The hemorrhage had been very
abundant, and Herbert was already too much enfeebled by the loss of
blood.

The reporter, therefore, thought it best to simply bathe the two wounds
with cold water.

Herbert was placed on his left side, and was maintained in that
position.

“He must not be moved.” said Gideon Spilett. “He is in the most
favorable position for the wounds in his back and chest to suppurate
easily, and absolute rest is necessary.”

“What! can’t we carry him to Granite House?” asked Pencroft.

“No, Pencroft,” replied the reporter.

“I’ll pay the villains off!” cried the sailor, shaking his fist in a
menacing manner.

“Pencroft!” said Cyrus Harding.

Gideon Spilett had resumed his examination of the wounded boy. Herbert
was still so frightfully pale, that the reporter felt anxious.

“Cyrus,” said he, “I am not a surgeon. I am in terrible perplexity. You
must aid me with your advice, your experience!”

“Take courage, my friend,” answered the engineer, pressing the
reporter’s hand. “Judge coolly. Think only of this: Herbert must be
saved!”

These words restored to Gideon Spilett that self-possession which he had
lost in a moment of discouragement on feeling his great responsibility.
He seated himself close to the bed. Cyrus Harding stood near. Pencroft
had torn up his shirt, and was mechanically making lint.

Spilett then explained to Cyrus Harding that he thought he ought first
of all to stop the hemorrhage, but not close the two wounds, or cause
their immediate cicatrization, for there had been internal perforation,
and the suppuration must not be allowed to accumulate in the chest.

Harding approved entirely, and it was decided that the two wounds should
be dressed without attempting to close them by immediate coaptation.

And now did the colonists possess an efficacious agent to act against
the inflammation which might occur?

Yes. They had one, for nature had generously lavished it. They had cold
water, that is to say, the most powerful sedative that can be employed
against inflammation of wounds, the most efficacious therapeutic agent
in grave cases, and the one which is now adopted by all physicians.
Cold water has, moreover, the advantage of leaving the wound in absolute
rest, and preserving it from all premature dressing, a considerable
advantage, since it has been found by experience that contact with the
air is dangerous during the first days.

Gideon Spilett and Cyrus Harding reasoned thus with their simple good
sense, and they acted as the best surgeon would have done. Compresses
of linen were applied to poor Herbert’s two wounds, and were kept
constantly wet with cold water.

The sailor had at first lighted a fire in the hut, which was not wanting
in things necessary for life. Maple sugar, medicinal plants, the same
which the lad had gathered on the banks of Lake Grant, enabled them to
make some refreshing drinks, which they gave him without his taking any
notice of it. His fever was extremely high, and all that day and night
passed without his becoming conscious.

Herbert’s life hung on a thread, and this thread might break at any
moment. The next day, the 12th of November, the hopes of Harding and his
companions slightly revived. Herbert had come out of his long stupor.
He opened his eyes, he recognized Cyrus Harding, the reporter, and
Pencroft. He uttered two or three words. He did not know what had
happened. They told him, and Spilett begged him to remain perfectly
still, telling him that his life was not in danger, and that his wounds
would heal in a few days. However, Herbert scarcely suffered at all,
and the cold water with which they were constantly bathed, prevented any
inflammation of the wounds. The suppuration was established in a regular
way, the fever did not increase, and it might now be hoped that this
terrible wound would not involve any catastrophe. Pencroft felt the
swelling of his heart gradually subside. He was like a sister of mercy,
like a mother by the bed of her child.

Herbert dozed again, but his sleep appeared more natural.

“Tell me again that you hope, Mr. Spilett,” said Pencroft. “Tell me
again that you will save Herbert!”

“Yes, we will save him!” replied the reporter. “The wound is serious,
and, perhaps, even the ball has traversed the lungs, but the perforation
of this organ is not fatal.”

“God bless you!” answered Pencroft.

As may be believed, during the four-and-twenty hours they had been in
the corral, the colonists had no other thought than that of nursing
Herbert. They did not think either of the danger which threatened them
should the convicts return, or of the precautions to be taken for the
future.

But on this day, while Pencroft watched by the sick-bed, Cyrus Harding
and the reporter consulted as to what it would be best to do.

First of all they examined the corral. There was not a trace of Ayrton.
Had the unhappy man been dragged away by his former accomplices? Had he
resisted, and been overcome in the struggle? This last supposition was
only too probable. Gideon Spilett, at the moment he scaled the palisade,
had clearly seen some one of the convicts running along the southern
spur of Mount Franklin, towards whom Top had sprung. It was one of those
whose object had been so completely defeated by the rocks at the mouth
of the Mercy. Besides, the one killed by Harding, and whose body was
found outside the enclosure, of course belonged to Bob Harvey’s crew.

As to the corral, it had not suffered any damage. The gates were closed,
and the animals had not been able to disperse in the forest. Nor could
they see traces of any struggle, any devastation, either in the hut,
or in the palisade. The ammunition only, with which Ayrton had been
supplied, had disappeared with him.

“The unhappy man has been surprised,” said Harding, “and as he was a man
to defend himself, he must have been overpowered.”

“Yes, that is to be feared!” said the reporter. “Then, doubtless, the
convicts installed themselves in the corral where they found plenty of
everything, and only fled when they saw us coming. It is very evident,
too, that at this moment Ayrton, whether living or dead, is not here!”

“We shall have to beat the forest,” said the engineer, “and rid the
island of these wretches. Pencroft’s presentiments were not mistaken,
when he wished to hunt them as wild beasts. That would have spared us
all these misfortunes!”

“Yes,” answered the reporter, “but now we have the right to be
merciless!”

“At any rate,” said the engineer, “we are obliged to wait some time,
and to remain at the corral until we can carry Herbert without danger to
Granite House.”

“But Neb?” asked the reporter.

“Neb is in safety.”

“But if, uneasy at our absence, he would venture to come?”

“He must not come!” returned Cyrus Harding quickly. “He would be
murdered on the road!”

“It is very probable, however, that he will attempt to rejoin us!”

“Ah, if the telegraph still acted, he might be warned! But that is
impossible now! As to leaving Pencroft and Herbert here alone, we could
not do it! Well, I will go alone to Granite House.”

“No, no! Cyrus,” answered the reporter, “you must not expose yourself!
Your courage would be of no avail. The villains are evidently watching
the corral, they are hidden in the thick woods which surround it, and if
you go we shall soon have to regret two misfortunes instead of one!”

“But Neb?” repeated the engineer. “It is now four-and-twenty hours since
he has had any news of us! He will be sure to come!”

“And as he will be less on his guard than we should be ourselves,” added
Spilett, “he will be killed!”

“Is there really no way of warning him?”

While the engineer thought, his eyes fell on Top, who, going backwards
and forwards seemed to say,--

“Am not I here?”

“Top!” exclaimed Cyrus Harding.

The animal sprang at his master’s call.

“Yes, Top will go,” said the reporter, who had understood the engineer.

“Top can go where we cannot! He will carry to Granite House the news of
the corral, and he will bring back to us that from Granite House!”

“Quick!” said Harding. “Quick!”

Spilett rapidly tore a leaf from his note-book, and wrote these words:--

“Herbert wounded. We are at the corral. Be on your guard. Do not leave
Granite House. Have the convicts appeared in the neighborhood? Reply by
Top.”

This laconic note contained all that Neb ought to know, and at the same
time asked all that the colonists wished to know. It was folded and
fastened to Top’s collar in a conspicuous position.

“Top, my dog,” said the engineer, caressing the animal, “Neb, Top! Neb!
Go, go!”

Top bounded at these words. He understood, he knew what was expected of
him. The road to the corral was familiar to him. In less than an hour he
could clear it, and it might be hoped that where neither Cyrus Harding
nor the reporter could have ventured without danger, Top, running among
the grass or in the wood, would pass unperceived.

The engineer went to the gate of the corral and opened it.

“Neb, Top! Neb!” repeated the engineer, again pointing in the direction
of Granite House.

Top sprang forwards, then almost immediately disappeared.

“He will get there!” said the reporter.

“Yes, and he will come back, the faithful animal!”

“What o’clock is it?” asked Gideon Spilett.

“Ten.”

“In an hour he may be here. We will watch for his return.”

The gate of the corral was closed. The engineer and the reporter
re-entered the house. Herbert was still in a sleep. Pencroft kept the
compresses always wet. Spilett, seeing there was nothing he could do
at that moment, busied himself in preparing some nourishment, while
attentively watching that part of the enclosure against the hill, at
which an attack might be expected.

The settlers awaited Top’s return with much anxiety. A little before
eleven o’clock, Cyrus Harding and the reporter, rifle in hand, were
behind the gate, ready to open it at the first bark of their dog.

They did not doubt that if Top had arrived safely at Granite House, Neb
would have sent him back immediately.

They had both been there for about ten minutes, when a report was heard,
followed by repeated barks.

The engineer opened the gate, and seeing smoke a hundred feet off in the
wood, he fired in that direction.

Almost immediately Top bounded into the corral, and the gate was quickly
shut.

“Top, Top!” exclaimed the engineer, taking the dog’s great honest head
between his hands.

A note was fastened to his neck, and Cyrus Harding read these words,
traced in Neb’s large writing:--“No pirates in the neighborhood of
Granite House. I will not stir. Poor Mr. Herbert!”



Chapter 8

So the convicts were still there, watching the corral, and determined to
kill the settlers one after the other. There was nothing to be done but
to treat them as wild beasts. But great precautions must be taken, for
just now the wretches had the advantage on their side, seeing, and not
being seen, being able to surprise by the suddenness of their attack,
yet not to be surprised themselves. Harding made arrangements,
therefore, for living in the corral, of which the provisions would last
for a tolerable length of time. Ayrton’s house had been provided with
all that was necessary for existence, and the convicts, scared by
the arrival of the settlers, had not had time to pillage it. It was
probable, as Gideon Spilett observed, that things had occurred as
follows:

The six convicts, disembarking on the island, had followed the southern
shore, and after having traversed the double shore of the Serpentine
Peninsula, not being inclined to venture into the Far West woods, they
had reached the mouth of Falls River. From this point, by following the
right bank of the watercourse, they would arrive at the spurs of Mount
Franklin, among which they would naturally seek a retreat, and they
could not have been long in discovering the corral, then uninhabited.
There they had regularly installed themselves, awaiting the moment
to put their abominable schemes into execution. Ayrton’s arrival had
surprised them, but they had managed to overpower the unfortunate man,
and--the rest may be easily imagined!

Now, the convicts,--reduced to five, it is true, but well armed,--were
roaming the woods, and to venture there was to expose themselves to
their attacks, which could be neither guarded against nor prevented.

“Wait! There is nothing else to be done!” repeated Cyrus Harding. “When
Herbert is cured, we can organize a general battle of the island, and
have satisfaction of these convicts. That will be the object of our
grand expedition at the same time--”

“As the search for our mysterious protector,” added Gideon Spilett,
finishing the engineer’s sentence. “And it must be acknowledged, my dear
Cyrus, that this time his protection was wanting at the very moment when
it was most necessary to us!”

“Who knows?” replied the engineer.

“What do you mean?” asked the reporter.

“That we are not at the end of our trouble yet, my dear Spilett,
and that his powerful intervention may have another opportunity of
exercising itself. But that is not the question now. Herbert’s life
before everything.”

This was the colonists’ saddest thought. Several days passed, and the
poor boy’s state was happily no worse. Cold water, always kept at a
suitable temperature, had completely prevented the inflammation of the
wounds. It even seemed to the reporter that this water, being slightly
sulphurous,--which was explained by the neighborhood of the volcano,
had a more direct action on the healing. The suppuration was much
less abundant, and thanks to the incessant care by which he was
surrounded!--Herbert returned to life, and his fever abated. He was
besides subjected to a severe diet, and consequently his weakness was
and would be extreme; but there was no want of refreshing drinks, and
absolute rest was of the greatest benefit to him. Cyrus Harding, Gideon
Spilett, and Pencroft had become very skilful in dressing the lad’s
wounds. All the linen in the house had been sacrificed. Herbert’s
wounds, covered with compresses and lint, were pressed neither too much
nor too little, so as to cause their cicatrization without effecting any
inflammatory reaction. The reporter used extreme care in the dressing,
knowing well the importance of it, and repeating to his companions that
which most surgeons willingly admit, that it is perhaps rarer to see a
dressing well done than an operation well performed.

In ten days, on the 22nd of November, Herbert was considerably better.
He had begun to take some nourishment.

The color was returning to his cheeks, and his bright eyes smiled at
his nurses. He talked a little, notwithstanding Pencroft’s efforts, who
talked incessantly to prevent him from beginning to speak, and told him
the most improbable stories. Herbert had questioned him on the subject
of Ayrton, whom he was astonished not to see near him, thinking that
he was at the corral. But the sailor, not wishing to distress Herbert,
contented himself by replying that Ayrton had rejoined Neb, so as to
defend Granite House.

“Humph!” said Pencroft, “these pirates! they are gentlemen who have
no right to any consideration! And the captain wanted to win them by
kindness! I’ll send them some kindness, but in the shape of a good
bullet!”

“And have they not been seen again?” asked Herbert.

“No, my boy,” answered the sailor, “but we shall find them, and when
you are cured we shall see if the cowards who strike us from behind will
dare to meet us face to face!”

“I am still very weak, my poor Pencroft!”

“Well! your strength will return gradually! What’s a ball through the
chest? Nothing but a joke! I’ve seen many, and I don’t think much of
them!”

At last things appeared to be going on well, and if no complication
occurred, Herbert’s recovery might be regarded as certain. But what
would have been the condition of the colonists if his state had been
aggravated,--if, for example, the ball had remained in his body, if his
arm or his leg had had to be amputated?

“No,” said Spilett more than once, “I have never thought of such a
contingency without shuddering!”

“And yet, if it had been necessary to operate,” said Harding one day to
him, “you would not have hesitated?”

“No, Cyrus!” said Gideon Spilett, “but thank God that we have been
spared this complication!”

As in so many other conjectures, the colonists had appealed to the logic
of that simple good sense of which they had made use so often, and once
more, thanks to their general knowledge, it had succeeded! But might not
a time come when all their science would be at fault? They were alone
on the island. Now, men in all states of society are necessary to each
other. Cyrus Harding knew this well, and sometimes he asked if some
circumstance might not occur which they would be powerless to surmount.
It appeared to him besides, that he and his companions, till then so
fortunate, had entered into an unlucky period. During the two years and
a half which had elapsed since their escape from Richmond, it might
be said that they had had everything their own way. The island had
abundantly supplied them with minerals, vegetables, animals, and as
Nature had constantly loaded them, their science had known how to take
advantage of what she offered them.

The wellbeing of the colony was therefore complete. Moreover, in certain
occurrences an inexplicable influence had come to their aid!... But all
that could only be for a time.

In short, Cyrus Harding believed that fortune had turned against them.

In fact, the convicts’ ship had appeared in the waters of the island,
and if the pirates had been, so to speak, miraculously destroyed, six of
them, at least, had escaped the catastrophe. They had disembarked on the
island, and it was almost impossible to get at the five who survived.
Ayrton had no doubt been murdered by these wretches, who possessed
firearms, and at the first use that they had made of them, Herbert had
fallen, wounded almost mortally. Were these the first blows aimed by
adverse fortune at the colonists? This was often asked by Harding. This
was often repeated by the reporter; and it appeared to him also that the
intervention, so strange, yet so efficacious, which till then had served
them so well, had now failed them. Had this mysterious being, whatever
he was, whose existence could not be denied, abandoned the island? Had
he in his turn succumbed?

No reply was possible to these questions. But it must not be imagined
that because Harding and his companions spoke of these things, they were
men to despair. Far from that. They looked their situation in the face,
they analyzed the chances, they prepared themselves for any event, they
stood firm and straight before the future, and if adversity was at last
to strike them, it would find in them men prepared to struggle against
it.



Chapter 9

The convalescence of the young invalid was regularly progressing. One
thing only was now to be desired, that his state would allow him to be
brought to Granite House. However well built and supplied the corral
house was, it could not be so comfortable as the healthy granite
dwelling. Besides, it did not offer the same security, and its tenants,
notwithstanding their watchfulness, were here always in fear of some
shot from the convicts. There, on the contrary, in the middle of that
impregnable and inaccessible cliff, they would have nothing to fear, and
any attack on their persons would certainly fail. They therefore waited
impatiently for the moment when Herbert might be moved without danger
from his wound, and they were determined to make this move, although the
communication through Jacamar Wood was very difficult.

They had no news from Neb, but were not uneasy on that account. The
courageous Negro, well entrenched in the depths of Granite House, would
not allow himself to be surprised. Top had not been sent again to him,
as it appeared useless to expose the faithful dog to some shot which
might deprive the settlers of their most useful auxiliary.

They waited, therefore, although they were anxious to be reunited at
Granite House. It pained the engineer to see his forces divided, for it
gave great advantage to the pirates. Since Ayrton’s disappearance they
were only four against five, for Herbert could not yet be counted, and
this was not the least care of the brave boy, who well understood the
trouble of which he was the cause.

The question of knowing how, in their condition, they were to act
against the pirates, was thoroughly discussed on the 29th of November
by Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, and Pencroft, at a moment when Herbert
was asleep and could not hear them.

“My friends,” said the reporter, after they had talked of Neb and of the
impossibility of communicating with him, “I think,--like you, that to
venture on the road to the corral would be to risk receiving a gunshot
without being able to return it. But do you not think that the best
thing to be done now is to openly give chase to these wretches?”

“That is just what I was thinking,” answered Pencroft. “I believe we’re
not fellows to be afraid of a bullet, and as for me, if Captain Harding
approves, I’m ready to dash into the forest! Why, hang it, one man is
equal to another!”

“But is he equal to five?” asked the engineer.

“I will join Pencroft,” said the reporter, “and both of us, well-armed
and accompanied by Top--”

“My dear Spilett, and you, Pencroft,” answered Harding, “let us reason
coolly. If the convicts were hid in one spot of the island, if we knew
that spot, and had only to dislodge them, I would undertake a direct
attack; but is there not occasion to fear, on the contrary, that they
are sure to fire the first shot?”

“Well, captain,” cried Pencroft, “a bullet does not always reach its
mark.”

“That which struck Herbert did not miss, Pencroft,” replied the
engineer. “Besides, observe that if both of you left the corral I should
remain here alone to defend it. Do you imagine that the convicts will
not see you leave it, that they will not allow you to enter the forest,
and that they will not attack it during your absence, knowing that there
is no one here but a wounded boy and a man?”

“You are right, captain,” replied Pencroft, his chest swelling with
sullen anger. “You are right; they will do all they can to retake the
corral, which they know to be well stored; and alone you could not hold
it against them.”

“Oh, if we were only at Granite House!”

“If we were at Granite House,” answered the engineer, “the case would be
very different. There I should not be afraid to leave Herbert with one,
while the other three went to search the forests of the island. But we
are at the corral, and it is best to stay here until we can leave it
together.”

Cyrus Harding’s reasoning was unanswerable, and his companions
understood it well.

“If only Ayrton was still one of us!” said Gideon Spilett. “Poor fellow!
his return to social life will have been but of short duration.”

“If he is dead,” added Pencroft, in a peculiar tone.

“Do you hope, then, Pencroft, that the villains have spared him?” asked
Gideon Spilett.

“Yes, if they had any interest in doing so.”

“What! you suppose that Ayrton finding his old companions, forgetting
all that he owes us--”

“Who knows?” answered the sailor, who did not hazard this shameful
supposition without hesitating.

“Pencroft,” said Harding, taking the sailor’s arm, “that is a wicked
idea of yours, and you will distress me much if you persist in speaking
thus. I will answer for Ayrton’s fidelity.”

“And I also,” added the reporter quickly.

“Yes, yes, captain, I was wrong,” replied Pencroft; “it was a wicked
idea indeed that I had, and nothing justifies it. But what can I do? I’m
not in my senses. This imprisonment in the corral wearies me horribly,
and I have never felt so excited as I do now.

“Be patient, Pencroft,” replied the engineer. “How long will it be, my
dear Spilett, before you think Herbert may be carried to Granite House?”

“That is difficult to say, Cyrus,” answered the reporter, “for any
imprudence might involve terrible consequences. But his convalescence
is progressing, and if he continues to gain strength, in eight days from
now--well, we shall see.”

Eight days! That would put off the return to Granite House until the
first days of December. At this time two months of spring had already
passed. The weather was fine, and the heat began to be great. The
forests of the island were in full leaf, and the time was approaching
when the usual crops ought to be gathered. The return to the plateau of
Prospect Heights would, therefore, be followed by extensive agricultural
labors, interrupted only by the projected expedition through the island.

It can, therefore, be well understood how injurious this seclusion in
the corral must have been to the colonists.

But if they were compelled to bow before necessity, they did not do so
without impatience.

Once or twice the reporter ventured out into the road and made the
tour of the palisade. Top accompanied him, and Gideon Spilett, his gun
cocked, was ready for any emergency.

He met with no misadventure and found no suspicious traces. His dog
would have warned him of any danger, and, as Top did not bark, it might
be concluded that there was nothing to fear at the moment at least, and
that the convicts were occupied in another part of the island.

However, on his second sortie, on the 27th of November, Gideon Spilett,
who had ventured a quarter of a mile into the woods, towards the south
of the mountain, remarked that Top scented something. The dog had no
longer his unconcerned manner; he went backwards and forwards, ferreting
among the grass and bushes as if his smell had revealed some suspicious
object to him.

Gideon Spilett followed Top, encouraged him, excited him by his voice,
while keeping a sharp look-out, his gun ready to fire, and sheltering
himself behind the trees. It was not probable that Top scented the
presence of man, for in that case, he would have announced it by
half-uttered, sullen, angry barks. Now, as he did not growl, it was
because danger was neither near nor approaching.

Nearly five minutes passed thus, Top rummaging, the reporter following
him prudently when, all at once, the dog rushed towards a thick bush,
and drew out a rag.

It was a piece of cloth, stained and torn, which Spilett immediately
brought back to the corral. There it was examined by the colonists,
who found that it was a fragment of Ayrton’s waistcoat, a piece of that
felt, manufactured solely by the Granite House factory.

“You see, Pencroft,” observed Harding, “there has been resistance on the
part of the unfortunate Ayrton. The convicts have dragged him away in
spite of himself! Do you still doubt his honesty?”

“No, captain,” answered the sailor, “and I repented of my suspicion a
long time ago! But it seems to me that something may be learned from the
incident.”

“What is that?” asked the reporter.

“It is that Ayrton was not killed at the corral! That they dragged him
away living, since he has resisted. Therefore, perhaps, he is still
living!”

“Perhaps, indeed,” replied the engineer, who remained thoughtful.

This was a hope, to which Ayrton’s companions could still hold. Indeed,
they had before believed that, surprised in the corral, Ayrton had
fallen by a bullet, as Herbert had fallen. But if the convicts had not
killed him at first, if they had brought him living to another part of
the island, might it not be admitted that he was still their prisoner?
Perhaps, even, one of them had found in Ayrton his old Australian
companion Ben Joyce, the chief of the escaped convicts. And who knows
but that they had conceived the impossible hope of bringing back Ayrton
to themselves? He would have been very useful to them, if they had been
able to make him turn traitor!

This incident was, therefore, favorably interpreted at the corral, and
it no longer appeared impossible that they should find Ayrton again.
On his side, if he was only a prisoner, Ayrton would no doubt do all
he could to escape from the hands of the villains, and this would be a
powerful aid to the settlers!

“At any rate,” observed Gideon Spilett, “if happily Ayrton did manage to
escape, he would go directly to Granite House, for he could not know
of the attempted assassination of which Herbert has been a victim, and
consequently would never think of our being imprisoned in the corral.”

“Oh! I wish that he was there, at Granite House!” cried Pencroft, “and
that we were there, too! For, although the rascals can do nothing to our
house, they may plunder the plateau, our plantations, our poultry-yard!”

Pencroft had become a thorough farmer, heartily attached to his crops.
But it must be said that Herbert was more anxious than any to return
to Granite House, for he knew how much the presence of the settlers
was needed there. And it was he who was keeping them at the corral!
Therefore, one idea occupied his mind--to leave the corral, and when!
He believed he could bear removal to Granite House. He was sure his
strength would return more quickly in his room, with the air and sight
of the sea!

Several times he pressed Gideon Spilett, but the latter, fearing, with
good reason, that Herbert’s wounds, half healed, might reopen on the
way, did not give the order to start.

However, something occurred which compelled Cyrus Harding and his
two friends to yield to the lad’s wish, and God alone knew that this
determination might cause them grief and remorse.

It was the 29th of November, seven o’clock in the evening. The three
settlers were talking in Herbert’s room, when they heard Top utter quick
barks.

Harding, Pencroft, and Spilett seized their guns and ran out of the
house. Top, at the foot of the palisade, was jumping, barking, but it
was with pleasure, not anger.

“Some one is coming.”

“Yes.”

“It is not an enemy!”

“Neb, perhaps?”

“Or Ayrton?”

These words had hardly been exchanged between the engineer and his two
companions when a body leaped over the palisade and fell on the ground
inside the corral.

It was Jup, Master Jup in person, to whom Top immediately gave a most
cordial reception.

“Jup!” exclaimed Pencroft.


“Neb has sent him to us,” said the reporter.

“Then,” replied the engineer, “he must have some note on him.”

Pencroft rushed up to the orang. Certainly if Neb had any important
matter to communicate to his master he could not employ a more sure or
more rapid messenger, who could pass where neither the colonists could,
nor even Top himself.

Cyrus Harding was not mistaken. At Jup’s neck hung a small bag, and in
this bag was found a little note traced by Neb’s hand.

The despair of Harding and his companions may be imagined when they read
these words:--


“Friday, six o’clock in the morning.

“Plateau invaded by convicts.

                             “Neb.”


They gazed at each other without uttering a word, then they re-entered
the house. What were they to do? The convicts on Prospect Heights! that
was disaster, devastation, ruin.

Herbert, on seeing the engineer, the reporter, and Pencroft re-enter,
guessed that their situation was aggravated, and when he saw Jup, he no
longer doubted that some misfortune menaced Granite House.

“Captain Harding,” said he, “I must go; I can bear the journey. I must
go.”

Gideon Spilett approached Herbert; then, having looked at him,--

“Let us go, then!” said he.

The question was quickly decided whether Herbert should be carried on a
litter or in the cart which had brought Ayrton to the corral. The motion
of the litter would have been more easy for the wounded lad, but it
would have necessitated two bearers, that is to say, there would have
been two guns less for defense if an attack was made on the road. Would
they not, on the contrary, by employing the cart leave every arm free?
Was it impossible to place the mattress on which Herbert was lying in
it, and to advance with so much care that any jolt should be avoided? It
could be done.

The cart was brought. Pencroft harnessed the onager. Cyrus Harding and
the reporter raised Herbert’s mattress and placed it on the bottom of
the cart. The weather was fine. The sun’s bright rays glanced through
the trees.

“Are the guns ready?” asked Cyrus Harding.

They were. The engineer and Pencroft, each armed with a double-barreled
gun, and Gideon Spilett carrying his rifle, had nothing to do but start.

“Are you comfortable, Herbert?” asked the engineer.

“Ah, captain,” replied the lad, “don’t be uneasy, I shall not die on the
road!”

While speaking thus, it could be seen that the poor boy had called up
all his energy, and by the energy of a powerful will had collected his
failing strength.

The engineer felt his heart sink painfully. He still hesitated to
give the signal for departure; but that would have driven Herbert to
despair--killed him perhaps.

“Forward!” said Harding.

The gate of the corral was opened. Jup and Top, who knew when to be
silent, ran in advance. The cart came out, the gate was reclosed, and
the onager, led by Pencroft, advanced at a slow pace.

Certainly, it would have been safer to have taken a different road than
that which led straight from the corral to Granite House, but the cart
would have met with great difficulties in moving under the trees. It was
necessary, therefore, to follow this way, although it was well known to
the convicts.

Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett walked one on each side of the cart,
ready to answer to any attack. However, it was not probable that the
convicts would have yet left the plateau of Prospect Heights.

Neb’s note had evidently been written and sent as soon as the convicts
had shown themselves there. Now, this note was dated six o’clock in
the morning, and the active orang, accustomed to come frequently to the
corral, had taken scarcely three quarters of an hour to cross the five
miles which separated it from Granite House. They would, therefore, be
safe at that time, and if there was any occasion for firing, it would
probably not be until they were in the neighborhood of Granite House.
However, the colonists kept a strict watch. Top and Jup, the latter
armed with his club, sometimes in front, sometimes beating the wood at
the sides of the road, signalized no danger.

The cart advanced slowly under Pencroft’s guidance. It had left the
corral at half-past seven. An hour after, four out of the five miles
had been cleared, without any incident having occurred. The road was
as deserted as all that part of the Jacamar Wood which lay between the
Mercy and the lake. There was no occasion for any warning. The wood
appeared as deserted as on the day when the colonists first landed on
the island.

They approached the plateau. Another mile and they would see the bridge
over Creek Glycerine. Cyrus Harding expected to find it in its place;
supposing that the convicts would have crossed it, and that, after
having passed one of the streams which enclosed the plateau, they
would have taken the precaution to lower it again, so as to keep open a
retreat.

At length an opening in the trees allowed the sea-horizon to be seen.
But the cart continued its progress, for not one of its defenders
thought of abandoning it.

At that moment Pencroft stopped the onager, and in a hoarse voice,--

“Oh! the villains!” he exclaimed.

And he pointed to a thick smoke rising from the mill, the sheds, and the
buildings at the poultry-yard.

A man was moving about in the midst of the smoke. It was Neb.

His companions uttered a shout. He heard, and ran to meet them.

The convicts had left the plateau nearly half-an-hour before, having
devastated it!

“And Mr. Herbert?” asked Neb.

Gideon Spilett returned to the cart.

Herbert had lost consciousness!



Chapter 10

Of the convicts, the dangers which menaced Granite House, the ruins
with which the plateau was covered, the colonists thought no longer.
Herbert’s critical state outweighed all other considerations. Would the
removal prove fatal to him by causing some internal injury? The reporter
could not affirm it, but he and his companions almost despaired of
the result. The cart was brought to the bend of the river. There some
branches, disposed as a liner, received the mattress on which lay the
unconscious Herbert. Ten minutes after, Cyrus Harding, Spilett, and
Pencroft were at the foot of the cliff, leaving Neb to take the cart
on to the plateau of Prospect Heights. The lift was put in motion, and
Herbert was soon stretched on his bed in Granite House.

What cares were lavished on him to bring him back to life! He smiled for
a moment on finding himself in his room, but could scarcely even murmur
a few words, so great was his weakness. Gideon Spilett examined his
wounds. He feared to find them reopened, having been imperfectly healed.
There was nothing of the sort. From whence, then, came this prostration?
why was Herbert so much worse? The lad then fell into a kind of feverish
sleep, and the reporter and Pencroft remained near the bed. During this
time, Harding told Neb all that had happened at the corral, and Neb
recounted to his master the events of which the plateau had just been
the theater.

It was only during the preceding night that the convicts had appeared on
the edge of the forest, at the approaches to Creek Glycerine. Neb, who
was watching near the poultry-yard, had not hesitated to fire at one of
the pirates, who was about to cross the stream; but in the darkness he
could not tell whether the man had been hit or not. At any rate, it was
not enough to frighten away the band, and Neb had only just time to get
up to Granite House, where at least he was in safety.

But what was he to do there? How prevent the devastations with which the
convicts threatened the plateau? Had Neb any means by which to warn
his master? And, besides, in what situation were the inhabitants of the
corral themselves? Cyrus Harding and his companions had left on the 11th
of November, and it was now the 29th. It was, therefore, nineteen days
since Neb had had other news than that brought by Top--disastrous news:
Ayrton disappeared, Herbert severely wounded, the engineer, reporter,
and sailor, as it were, imprisoned in the corral!

What was he to do? asked poor Neb. Personally he had nothing to
fear, for the convicts could not reach him in Granite House. But the
buildings, the plantations, all their arrangements at the mercy of the
pirates! Would it not be best to let Cyrus Harding judge of what he
ought to do, and to warn him, at least, of the danger which threatened
him?

Neb then thought of employing Jup, and confiding a note to him. He knew
the orang’s great intelligence, which had been often put to the proof.
Jup understood the word corral, which had been frequently pronounced
before him, and it may be remembered, too, that he had often driven
the cart thither in company with Pencroft. Day had not yet dawned. The
active orang would know how to pass unperceived through the woods, of
which the convicts, besides, would think he was a native.

Neb did not hesitate. He wrote the note, he tied it to Jup’s neck, he
brought the ape to the door of Granite House, from which he let down a
long cord to the ground; then, several times he repeated these words,--

“Jup Jup! corral, corral!”

The creature understood, seized the cord, glided rapidly down the beach,
and disappeared in the darkness without the convicts’ attention having
been in the least excited.

“You did well, Neb,” said Harding, “but perhaps in not warning us you
would have done still better!”

And, in speaking thus, Cyrus Harding thought of Herbert, whose recovery
the removal had so seriously checked.

Neb ended his account. The convicts had not appeared at all on the
beach. Not knowing the number of the island’s inhabitants, they might
suppose that Granite House was defended by a large party. They must have
remembered that during the attack by the brig numerous shot had been
fired both from the lower and upper rocks, and no doubt they did not
wish to expose themselves. But the plateau of Prospect Heights was
open to them, and not covered by the fire of Granite House. They gave
themselves up, therefore, to their instinct of destruction,--plundering,
burning, devastating everything,--and only retiring half an hour before
the arrival of the colonists, whom they believed still confined in the
corral.

On their retreat, Neb hurried out. He climbed the plateau at the risk
of being perceived and fired at, tried to extinguish the fire which was
consuming the buildings of the poultry-yard, and had struggled, though
in vain, against it until the cart appeared at the edge of the wood.

Such had been these serious events. The presence of the convicts
constituted a permanent source of danger to the settlers in Lincoln
Island, until then so happy, and who might now expect still greater
misfortunes.

Spilett remained in Granite House with Herbert and Pencroft, while
Cyrus Harding, accompanied by Neb, proceeded to judge for himself of the
extent of the disaster.

It was fortunate that the convicts had not advanced to the foot of
Granite House. The workshop at the Chimneys would in that case not
have escaped destruction. But after all, this evil would have been more
easily reparable than the ruins accumulated on the plateau of Prospect
Heights. Harding and Neb proceeded towards the Mercy, and ascended its
left bank without meeting with any trace of the convicts; nor on the
other side of the river, in the depths of the wood, could they perceive
any suspicious indications.

Besides, it might be supposed that in all probability either the
convicts knew of the return of the settlers to Granite House, by having
seen them pass on the road from the corral, or, after the devastation of
the plateau, they had penetrated into Jacamar Wood, following the course
of the Mercy, and were thus ignorant of their return.

In the former case, they must have returned towards the corral, now
without defenders, and which contained valuable stores.

In the latter, they must have regained their encampment, and would wait
on opportunity to recommence the attack.

It was, therefore, possible to prevent them, but any enterprise to clear
the island was now rendered difficult by reason of Herbert’s condition.
Indeed, their whole force would have been barely sufficient to cope with
the convicts, and just now no one could leave Granite House.

The engineer and Neb arrived on the plateau. Desolation reigned
everywhere. The fields had been trampled over; the ears of wheat, which
were nearly full-grown, lay on the ground. The other plantations had not
suffered less.

The kitchen-garden was destroyed. Happily, Granite House possessed a
store of seed which would enable them to repair these misfortunes.

As to the wall and buildings of the poultry-yard and the onagers stable,
the fire had destroyed all. A few terrified creatures roamed over the
plateau. The birds, which during the fire had taken refuge on the waters
of the lake, had already returned to their accustomed spot, and were
dabbling on the banks. Everything would have to be reconstructed.

Cyrus Harding’s face, which was paler than usual, expressed an internal
anger which he commanded with difficulty, but he did not utter a word.
Once more he looked at his devastated fields, and at the smoke which
still rose from the ruins, then he returned to Granite House.

The following days were the saddest of any that the colonists had passed
on the island! Herbert’s weakness visibly increased. It appeared that
a more serious malady, the consequence of the profound physiological
disturbance he had gone through, threatened to declare itself, and
Gideon Spilett feared such an aggravation of his condition that he would
be powerless to fight against it!

In fact, Herbert remained in an almost continuous state of drowsiness,
and symptoms of delirium began to manifest themselves. Refreshing drinks
were the only remedies at the colonists’ disposal. The fever was not
as yet very high, but it soon appeared that it would probably recur at
regular intervals. Gideon Spilett first recognized this on the 6th of
December.

The poor boy, whose fingers, nose, and ears had become extremely
pale, was at first seized with slight shiverings, horripilations, and
tremblings. His pulse was weak and irregular, his skin dry, his thirst
intense. To this soon succeeded a hot fit; his face became flushed; his
skin reddened; his pulse quick; then a profuse perspiration broke out
after which the fever seemed to diminish. The attack had lasted nearly
five hours.

Gideon Spilett had not left Herbert, who, it was only too certain, was
now seized by an intermittent fever, and this fever must be cured at any
cost before it should assume a more serious aspect.

“And in order to cure it,” said Spilett to Cyrus Harding, “we need a
febrifuge.”

“A febrifuge--” answered the engineer. “We have neither Peruvian bark,
nor sulphate of quinine.”

“No,” said Gideon Spilett, “but there are willows on the border of
the lake, and the bark of the willow might, perhaps, prove to be a
substitute for quinine.”

“Let us try it without losing a moment,” replied Cyrus Harding.

The bark of the willow has, indeed, been justly considered as a
succedaneum for Peruvian bark, as has also that of the horse-chestnut
tree, the leaf of the holly, the snake-root, etc. It was evidently
necessary to make trial of this substance, although not so valuable as
Peruvian bark, and to employ it in its natural state, since they had no
means for extracting its essence.

Cyrus Harding went himself to cut from the trunk of a species of black
willow, a few pieces of bark; he brought them back to Granite House, and
reduced them to a powder, which was administered that same evening to
Herbert.

The night passed without any important change. Herbert was somewhat
delirious, but the fever did not reappear in the night, and did not
return either during the following day.

Pencroft again began to hope. Gideon Spilett said nothing. It might be
that the fever was not quotidian, but tertian, and that it would return
next day. Therefore, he awaited the next day with the greatest anxiety.

It might have been remarked besides that during this period Herbert
remained utterly prostrate, his head weak and giddy. Another symptom
alarmed the reporter to the highest degree. Herbert’s liver became
congested, and soon a more intense delirium showed that his brain was
also affected.

Gideon Spilett was overwhelmed by this new complication. He took the
engineer aside.

“It is a malignant fever,” said he.

“A malignant fever!” cried Harding. “You are mistaken, Spilett. A
malignant fever does not declare itself spontaneously; its germ must
previously have existed.”

“I am not mistaken,” replied the reporter. “Herbert no doubt contracted
the germ of this fever in the marshes of the island. He has already had
one attack; should a second come on and should we not be able to prevent
a third, he is lost.”

“But the willow bark?”

“That is insufficient,” answered the reporter, “and the third attack of
a malignant fever, which is not arrested by means of quinine, is always
fatal.”

Fortunately, Pencroft heard nothing of this conversation or he would
have gone mad.

It may be imagined what anxiety the engineer and the reporter suffered
during the day of the 7th of December and the following night.

Towards the middle of the day the second attack came on. The crisis was
terrible. Herbert felt himself sinking. He stretched his arms towards
Cyrus Harding, towards Spilett, towards Pencroft. He was so young to
die! The scene was heart-rending. They were obliged to send Pencroft
away.

The fit lasted five hours. It was evident that Herbert could not survive
a third.

The night was frightful. In his delirium Herbert uttered words which
went to the hearts of his companions. He struggled with the convicts,
he called to Ayrton, he poured forth entreaties to that mysterious
being,--that powerful unknown protector,--whose image was stamped upon
his mind; then he again fell into a deep exhaustion which completely
prostrated him. Several times Gideon Spilett thought that the poor boy
was dead.

The next day, the 8th of December, was but a succession of the fainting
fits. Herbert’s thin hands clutched the sheets. They had administered
further doses of pounded bark, but the reporter expected no result from
it.

“If before tomorrow morning we have not given him a more energetic
febrifuge,” said the reporter, “Herbert will be dead.”

Night arrived--the last night, it was too much to be feared, of the
good, brave, intelligent boy, so far in advance of his years, and who
was loved by all as their own child. The only remedy which existed
against this terrible malignant fever, the only specific which could
overcome it, was not to be found in Lincoln Island.

During the night of the 8th of December, Herbert was seized by a more
violent delirium. His liver was fearfully congested, his brain affected,
and already it was impossible for him to recognize any one.

Would he live until the next day, until that third attack which
must infallibly carry him off? It was not probable. His strength was
exhausted, and in the intervals of fever he lay as one dead.

Towards three o’clock in the morning Herbert uttered a piercing cry.
He seemed to be torn by a supreme convulsion. Neb, who was near him,
terrified, ran into the next room where his companions were watching.

Top, at that moment, barked in a strange manner.

All rushed in immediately and managed to restrain the dying boy, who was
endeavoring to throw himself out of his bed, while Spilett, taking his
arm, felt his pulse gradually quicken.

It was five in the morning. The rays of the rising sun began to shine in
at the windows of Granite House. It promised to be a fine day, and this
day was to be poor Herbert’s last!

A ray glanced on the table placed near the bed.

Suddenly Pencroft, uttering a cry, pointed to the table.

On it lay a little oblong box, of which the cover bore these
words:--“SULPHATE OF QUININE.”



Chapter 11

Gideon Spilett took the box and opened it. It contained nearly two
hundred grains of a white powder, a few particles of which he carried to
his lips. The extreme bitterness of the substance precluded all doubt;
it was certainly the precious extract of quinine, that pre-eminent
antifebrile.

This powder must be administered to Herbert without delay. How it came
there might be discussed later.

“Some coffee!” said Spilett.

In a few moments Neb brought a cup of the warm infusion. Gideon Spilett
threw into it about eighteen grains of quinine, and they succeeded in
making Herbert drink the mixture.

There was still time, for the third attack of the malignant fever had
not yet shown itself. How they longed to be able to add that it would
not return!

Besides, it must be remarked, the hopes of all had now revived. The
mysterious influence had been again exerted, and in a critical moment,
when they had despaired of it.

In a few hours Herbert was much calmer. The colonists could now discuss
this incident. The intervention of the stranger was more evident than
ever. But how had he been able to penetrate during the night into
Granite House? It was inexplicable, and, in truth, the proceedings of
the genius of the island were not less mysterious than was that genius
himself. During this day the sulphate of quinine was administered to
Herbert every three hours.

The next day some improvement in Herbert’s condition was apparent.
Certainly, he was not out of danger, intermittent fevers being subject
to frequent and dangerous relapses, but the most assiduous care was
bestowed on him. And besides, the specific was at hand; nor, doubtless,
was he who had brought it far distant! And the hearts of all were
animated by returning hope.

This hope was not disappointed. Ten days after, on the 20th of December,
Herbert’s convalescence commenced.

He was still weak, and strict diet had been imposed upon him, but no
access of fever supervened. And then, the poor boy submitted with such
docility to all the prescriptions ordered him! He longed so to get well!

Pencroft was as a man who has been drawn up from the bottom of an abyss.
Fits of joy approaching delirium seized him. When the time for the third
attack had passed by, he nearly suffocated the reporter in his embrace.
Since then, he always called him Dr. Spilett.

The real doctor, however, remained undiscovered.

“We will find him!” repeated the sailor.

Certainly, this man, whoever he was, might expect a somewhat too
energetic embrace from the worthy Pencroft!

The month of December ended, and with it the year 1867, during which
the colonists of Lincoln Island had of late been so severely tried.
They commenced the year 1868 with magnificent weather, great heat, and
a tropical temperature, delightfully cooled by the sea-breeze. Herbert’s
recovery progressed, and from his bed, placed near one of the windows of
Granite House, he could inhale the fresh air, charged with ozone, which
could not fail to restore his health. His appetite returned, and what
numberless delicate, savory little dishes Neb prepared for him!

“It is enough to make one wish to have a fever oneself!” said Pencroft.

During all this time, the convicts did not once appear in the vicinity
of Granite House. There was no news of Ayrton, and though the engineer
and Herbert still had some hopes of finding him again, their companions
did not doubt but that the unfortunate man had perished. However, this
uncertainty could not last, and when once the lad should have recovered,
the expedition, the result of which must be so important, would be
undertaken. But they would have to wait a month, perhaps, for all
the strength of the colony must be put into requisition to obtain
satisfaction from the convicts.

However, Herbert’s convalescence progressed rapidly. The congestion of
the liver had disappeared, and his wounds might be considered completely
healed.

During the month of January, important work was done on the plateau
of Prospect Heights; but it consisted solely in saving as much as was
possible from the devastated crops, either of corn or vegetables. The
grain and the plants were gathered, so as to provide a new harvest for
the approaching half-season. With regard to rebuilding the poultry-yard,
wall, or stables, Cyrus Harding preferred to wait. While he and his
companions were in pursuit of the convicts, the latter might very
probably pay another visit to the plateau, and it would be useless to
give them an opportunity of recommencing their work of destruction. When
the island should be cleared of these miscreants, they would set about
rebuilding. The young convalescent began to get up in the second week of
January, at first for one hour a day, then two, then three. His strength
visibly returned, so vigorous was his constitution. He was now eighteen
years of age. He was tall, and promised to become a man of noble and
commanding presence. From this time his recovery, while still requiring
care,--and Dr. Spilett was very strict,--made rapid progress. Towards
the end of the month, Herbert was already walking about on Prospect
Heights, and the beach.

He derived, from several sea-baths, which he took in company with
Pencroft and Neb, the greatest possible benefit. Cyrus Harding thought
he might now settle the day for their departure, for which the 15th of
February was fixed. The nights, very clear at this time of year, would
be favorable to the researches they intended to make all over the
island.

The necessary preparations for this exploration were now commenced, and
were important, for the colonists had sworn not to return to Granite
House until their twofold object had been achieved; on the one hand, to
exterminate the convicts, and rescue Ayrton, if he was still living; on
the other, to discover who it was that presided so effectually over the
fortunes of the colony.

Of Lincoln Island, the settlers knew thoroughly all the eastern coast
from Claw Cape to the Mandible Capes, the extensive Tadorn Marsh, the
neighborhood of Lake Grant, Jacamar Wood, between the road to the corral
and the Mercy, the courses of the Mercy and Red Creek, and lastly, the
spurs of Mount Franklin, among which the corral had been established.

They had explored, though only in an imperfect manner, the vast shore
of Washington Bay from Claw Cape to Reptile End, the woody and marshy
border of the west coast, and the interminable downs, ending at the open
mouth of Shark Gulf. But they had in no way surveyed the woods which
covered the Serpentine Peninsula, all to the right of the Mercy, the
left bank of Falls River, and the wilderness of spurs and valleys which
supported three quarters of the base of Mount Franklin, to the east, the
north, and the west, and where doubtless many secret retreats existed.
Consequently, many millions of acres of the island had still escaped
their investigations.

It was, therefore, decided that the expedition should be carried through
the Far West, so as to include all that region situated on the right of
the Mercy.

It might, perhaps, be better worth while to go direct to the corral,
where it might be supposed that the convicts had again taken refuge,
either to pillage or to establish themselves there. But either the
devastation of the corral would have been an accomplished fact by
this time, and it would be too late to prevent it, or it had been the
convicts’ interest to entrench themselves there, and there would be
still time to go and turn them out on their return.

Therefore, after some discussion, the first plan was adhered to, and the
settlers resolved to proceed through the wood to Reptile End. They would
make their way with their hatchets, and thus lay the first draft of a
road which would place Granite House in communication with the end of
the peninsula for a length of from sixteen to seventeen miles.

The cart was in good condition. The onagers, well rested, could go a
long journey. Provisions, camp effects, a portable stove, and various
utensils were packed in the cart, as also weapons and ammunition,
carefully chosen from the now complete arsenal of Granite House. But it
was necessary to remember that the convicts were, perhaps, roaming about
the woods, and that in the midst of these thick forests a shot might
quickly be fired and received. It was therefore resolved that the little
band of settlers should remain together and not separate under any
pretext whatever.

It was also decided that no one should remain at Granite House. Top
and Jup themselves were to accompany the expedition; the inaccessible
dwelling needed no guard. The 14th of February, eve of the departure,
was consecrated entirely to repose, and--thanksgiving addressed by the
colonists to the Creator. A place in the cart was reserved for Herbert,
who, though thoroughly convalescent, was still a little weak. The next
morning, at daybreak, Cyrus Harding took the necessary measures to
protect Granite House from any invasion. The ladders, which were
formerly used for the ascent, were brought to the Chimneys and buried
deep in the sand, so that they might be available on the return of the
colonists, for the machinery of the lift had been taken to pieces, and
nothing of the apparatus remained. Pencroft stayed the last in Granite
House in order to finish this work, and he then lowered himself down
by means of a double rope held below, and which, when once hauled down,
left no communication between the upper landing and the beach.

The weather was magnificent.

“We shall have a warm day of it,” said the reporter, laughing.

“Pooh! Dr. Spilett,” answered Pencroft, “we shall walk under the shade
of the trees and shan’t even see the sun!”

“Forward!” said the engineer.

The cart was waiting on the beach before the Chimneys. The reporter
made Herbert take his place in it during the first hours at least of the
journey, and the lad was obliged to submit to his doctor’s orders.

Neb placed himself at the onagers’ heads. Cyrus Harding, the reporter,
and the sailor, walked in front. Top bounded joyfully along. Herbert
offered a seat in his vehicle to Jup, who accepted it without ceremony.
The moment for departure had arrived, and the little band set out.

The cart first turned the angle of the mouth of the Mercy, then, having
ascended the left bank for a mile, crossed the bridge, at the other side
of which commenced the road to Port Balloon, and there the explorers,
leaving this road on their left, entered the cover of the immense woods
which formed the region of the Far West.

For the first two miles the widely scattered trees allowed the cart to
pass with ease; from time to time it became necessary to cut away a few
creepers and bushes, but no serious obstacle impeded the progress of the
colonists.

The thick foliage of the trees threw a grateful shade on the ground.
Deodars, Douglas firs, casuarinas, banksias, gum-trees, dragon-trees,
and other well-known species, succeeded each other far as the eye could
reach. The feathered tribes of the island were all represented--grouse,
jacamars, pheasants, lories, as well as the chattering cockatoos,
parrots, and paroquets. Agouties, kangaroos, and capybaras fled swiftly
at their approach; and all this reminded the settlers of the first
excursions they had made on their arrival at the island.

“Nevertheless,” observed Cyrus Harding, “I notice that these creatures,
both birds and quadrupeds, are more timid than formerly. These woods
have, therefore, been recently traversed by the convicts, and we shall
certainly find some traces of them.”

And, in fact, in several places they could distinguish traces, more or
less recent, of the passage of a band of men--here branches broken off
the trees, perhaps to mark out the way; there the ashes of a fire, and
footprints in clayey spots; but nothing which appeared to belong to a
settled encampment.

The engineer had recommended his companions to refrain from hunting. The
reports of the firearms might give the alarm to the convicts, who
were, perhaps, roaming through the forest. Moreover, the hunters would
necessarily ramble some distance from the cart, which it was dangerous
to leave unguarded.

In the afterpart of the day, when about six miles from Granite House,
their progress became much more difficult. In order to make their way
through some thickets, they were obliged to cut down trees. Before
entering such places Harding was careful to send in Top and Jup, who
faithfully accomplished their commission, and when the dog and orang
returned without giving any warning, there was evidently nothing to
fear, either from convicts or wild beasts, two varieties of the animal
kingdom, whose ferocious instincts placed them on the same level. On the
evening of the first day the colonists encamped about nine miles from
Granite House, on the border of a little stream falling into the Mercy,
and of the existence of which they had till then been ignorant; it
evidently, however, belonged to the hydiographical system to which the
soil owed its astonishing fertility. The settlers made a hearty meal,
for their appetites were sharpened, and measures were then taken that
the night might be passed in safety. If the engineer had had only to
deal with wild beasts, jaguars or others, he would have simply lighted
fires all around his camp, which would have sufficed for its defense;
but the convicts would be rather attracted than terrified by the flames,
and it was, therefore, better to be surrounded by the profound darkness
of night.

The watch was, however, carefully organized. Two of the settlers were
to watch together, and every two hours it was agreed that they should
be relieved by their comrades. And so, notwithstanding his wish to the
contrary, Herbert was exempted from guard. Pencroft and Gideon Spilett
in one party, the engineer and Neb in another, mounted guard in turns
over the camp.

The night, however, was but of few hours. The darkness was due rather to
the thickness of the foliage than to the disappearance of the sun.
The silence was scarcely disturbed by the howling of jaguars and the
chattering of the monkeys, the latter appearing to particularly irritate
Master Jup. The night passed without incident, and on the next day, the
15th of February, the journey through the forest, tedious rather than
difficult, was continued. This day they could not accomplish more than
six miles, for every moment they were obliged to cut a road with their
hatchets.

Like true settlers, the colonists spared the largest and most beautiful
trees, which would besides have cost immense labor to fell, and the
small ones only were sacrificed, but the result was that the road took a
very winding direction, and lengthened itself by numerous detours.

During the day Herbert discovered several new specimens not before met
with in the island, such as the tree-fern, with its leaves spread out
like the waters of a fountain, locust-trees, on the long pods of
which the onagers browsed greedily, and which supplied a sweet pulp
of excellent flavor. There, too, the colonists again found groups of
magnificent kauries, their cylindrical trunks, crowded with a cone
of verdure, rising to a height of two hundred feet. These were the
tree-kings of New Zealand, as celebrated as the cedars of Lebanon.

As to the fauna, there was no addition to those species already known to
the hunters. Nevertheless, they saw, though unable to get near them, a
couple of those large birds peculiar to Australia, a sort of cassowary,
called emu, five feet in height, and with brown plumage, which belong
to the tribe of waders. Top darted after them as fast as his four legs
could carry him, but the emus distanced him with ease, so prodigious was
their speed.

As to the traces left by the convicts, a few more were discovered. Some
footprints found near an apparently recently extinguished fire were
attentively examined by the settlers. By measuring them one after the
other, according to their length and breadth, the marks of five men’s
feet were easily distinguished. The five convicts had evidently
camped on this spot; but,--and this was the object of so minute an
examination,--a sixth footprint could not be discovered, which in that
case would have been that of Ayrton.

“Ayrton was not with them!” said Herbert.

“No,” answered Pencroft, “and if he was not with them, it was because
the wretches had already murdered him! but then these rascals have not a
den to which they may be tracked like tigers!”

“No,” replied the reporter, “it is more probable that they wander at
random, and it is their interest to rove about until the time when they
will be masters of the island!”

“The masters of the island!” exclaimed the sailor; “the masters of the
island!...” he repeated, and his voice was choked, as if his throat was
seized in an iron grasp. Then in a calmer tone, “Do you know, Captain
Harding,” said he, “what the ball is which I have rammed into my gun?”

“No, Pencroft!”

“It is the ball that went through Herbert’s chest, and I promise you it
won’t miss its mark!”

But this just retaliation would not bring Ayrton back to life, and from
the examination of the footprints left in the ground, they must, alas!
conclude that all hopes of ever seeing him again must be abandoned.

That evening they encamped fourteen miles from Granite House, and Cyrus
Harding calculated that they could not be more than five miles from
Reptile Point.

And indeed, the next day the extremity of the peninsula was reached, and
the whole length of the forest had been traversed; but there was nothing
to indicate the retreat in which the convicts had taken refuge, nor
that, no less secret, which sheltered the mysterious unknown.



Chapter 12

The next day, the 18th of February, was devoted to the exploration
of all that wooded region forming the shore from Reptile End to Falls
River. The colonists were able to search this forest thoroughly, for, as
it was comprised between the two shores of the Serpentine Peninsula, it
was only from three to four miles in breadth. The trees, both by their
height and their thick foliage, bore witness to the vegetative power of
the soil, more astonishing here than in any other part of the island.
One might have said that a corner from the virgin forests of America or
Africa had been transported into this temperate zone. This led them to
conclude that the superb vegetation found a heat in this soil, damp in
its upper layer, but warmed in the interior by volcanic fires, which
could not belong to a temperate climate. The most frequently occurring
trees were knaries and eucalypti of gigantic dimensions.

But the colonists’ object was not simply to admire the magnificent
vegetation. They knew already that in this respect Lincoln Island would
have been worthy to take the first rank in the Canary group, to which
the first name given was that of the Happy Isles. Now, alas! their
island no longer belonged to them entirely; others had taken possession
of it, miscreants polluted its shores, and they must be destroyed to the
last man.

No traces were found on the western coast, although they were carefully
sought for. No more footprints, no more broken branches, no more
deserted camps.

“This does not surprise me,” said Cyrus Harding to his companions.
“The convicts first landed on the island in the neighborhood of Flotsam
Point, and they immediately plunged into the Far West forests, after
crossing Tadorn Marsh. They then followed almost the same route that we
took on leaving Granite House. This explains the traces we found in the
wood. But, arriving on the shore, the convicts saw at once that they
would discover no suitable retreat there, and it was then that, going
northwards again, they came upon the corral.”

“Where they have perhaps returned,” said Pencroft.

“I do not think so,” answered the engineer, “for they would naturally
suppose that our researches would be in that direction. The corral is
only a storehouse to them, and not a definitive encampment.”

“I am of Cyrus’ opinion,” said the reporter, “and I think that it is
among the spurs of Mount Franklin that the convicts will have made their
lair.”

“Then, captain, straight to the corral!” cried Pencroft. “We must finish
them off, and till now we have only lost time!”

“No, my friend,” replied the engineer; “you forget that we have a reason
for wishing to know if the forests of the Far West do not contain some
habitation. Our exploration has a double object, Pencroft. If, on the
one hand, we have to chastise crime, we have, on the other, an act of
gratitude to perform.”

“That was well said, captain,” replied the sailor, “but, all the same,
it is my opinion that we shall not find the gentleman until he pleases.”

And truly Pencroft only expressed the opinion of all. It was probable
that the stranger’s retreat was not less mysterious than was he himself.

That evening the cart halted at the mouth of Falls River. The camp was
organized as usual, and the customary precautions were taken for the
night. Herbert, become again the healthy and vigorous lad he was before
his illness, derived great benefit from this life in the open air,
between the sea breezes and the vivifying air from the forests. His
place was no longer in the cart, but at the head of the troop.

The next day, the 19th of February, the colonists, leaving the shore,
where, beyond the mouth, basalts of every shape were so picturesquely
piled up, ascended the river by its left bank. The road had been already
partly cleared in their former excursions made from the corral to the
west coast. The settlers were now about six miles from Mount Franklin.

The engineer’s plan was this:--To minutely survey the valley forming
the bed of the river, and to cautiously approach the neighborhood of the
corral; if the corral was occupied, to seize it by force; if it was not,
to entrench themselves there and make it the center of the operations
which had for their object the exploration of Mount Franklin.

This plan was unanimously approved by the colonists, for they were
impatient to regain entire possession of their island.

They made their way then along the narrow valley separating two of the
largest spurs of Mount Franklin. The trees, crowded on the river’s bank,
became rare on the upper slopes of the mountain. The ground was hilly
and rough, very suitable for ambushes, and over which they did not
venture without extreme precaution. Top and Jup skirmished on the
flanks, springing right and left through the thick brushwood, and
emulating each other in intelligence and activity. But nothing showed
that the banks of the stream had been recently frequented--nothing
announced either the presence or the proximity of the convicts. Towards
five in the evening the cart stopped nearly 600 feet from the palisade.
A semicircular screen of trees still hid it.

It was necessary to reconnoiter the corral, in order to ascertain if it
was occupied. To go there openly, in broad daylight, when the convicts
were probably in ambush, would be to expose themselves, as poor Herbert
had done, to the firearms of the ruffians. It was better, then, to wait
until night came on.

However, Gideon Spilett wished without further delay to reconnoiter the
approaches to the corral, and Pencroft, who was quite out of patience,
volunteered to accompany him.

“No, my friends,” said the engineer, “wait till night. I will not allow
one of you to expose himself in open day.”

“But, captain--” answered the sailor, little disposed to obey.

“I beg of you, Pencroft,” said the engineer.

“Very well!” replied the sailor, who vented his anger in another way, by
bestowing on the convicts the worst names in his maritime vocabulary.

The colonists remained, therefore, near the cart, and carefully watched
the neighboring parts of the forest.

Three hours passed thus. The wind had fallen, and absolute silence
reigned under the great trees. The snapping of the smallest twig, a
footstep on the dry leaves, the gliding of a body among the grass, would
have been heard without difficulty. All was quiet. Besides, Top, lying
on the grass, his head stretched out on his paws, gave no sign of
uneasiness. At eight o’clock the day appeared far enough advanced for
the reconnaissance to be made under favorable conditions. Gideon Spilett
declared himself ready to set out accompanied by Pencroft. Cyrus Harding
consented. Top and Jup were to remain with the engineer, Herbert, and
Neb, for a bark or a cry at a wrong moment would give the alarm.

“Do not be imprudent,” said Harding to the reporter and Pencroft, “you
have not to gain possession of the corral, but only to find out whether
it is occupied or not.”

“All right,” answered Pencroft.

And the two departed.

Under the trees, thanks to the thickness of their foliage, the obscurity
rendered any object invisible beyond a radius of from thirty to forty
feet. The reporter and Pencroft, halting at any suspicious sound,
advanced with great caution.

They walked a little distance apart from each other so as to offer a
less mark for a shot. And, to tell the truth, they expected every moment
to hear a report. Five minutes after leaving the cart, Gideon Spilett
and Pencroft arrived at the edge of the wood before the clearing beyond
which rose the palisade.

They stopped. A few straggling beams still fell on the field clear of
trees. Thirty feet distant was the gate of the corral, which appeared
to be closed. This thirty feet, which it was necessary to cross from
the wood to the palisade, constituted the dangerous zone, to borrow
a ballistic term: in fact, one or more bullets fired from behind the
palisade might knock over any one who ventured on to this zone. Gideon
Spilett and the sailor were not men to draw back, but they knew that
any imprudence on their part, of which they would be the first victims,
would fall afterwards on their companions. If they themselves were
killed, what would become of Harding, Neb, and Herbert?

But Pencroft, excited at feeling himself so near the corral where he
supposed the convicts had taken refuge, was about to press forward, when
the reporter held him back with a grasp of iron.

“In a few minutes it will be quite dark,” whispered Spilett in the
sailor’s ear, “then will be the time to act.”

Pencroft, convulsively clasping the butt-end of his gun, restrained his
energies, and waited, swearing to himself.

Soon the last of the twilight faded away. Darkness, which seemed as if
it issued from the dense forest, covered the clearing. Mount Franklin
rose like an enormous screen before the western horizon, and night
spread rapidly over all, as it does in regions of low latitudes. Now was
the time.

The reporter and Pencroft, since posting themselves on the edge of the
wood, had not once lost sight of the palisade. The corral appeared to
be absolutely deserted. The top of the palisade formed a line, a
little darker than the surrounding shadow, and nothing disturbed its
distinctness. Nevertheless, if the convicts were there, they must have
posted one of their number to guard against any surprise.

Spilett grasped his companion’s hand, and both crept towards the corral,
their guns ready to fire.

They reached the gate without the darkness being illuminated by a single
ray of light.

Pencroft tried to push open the gate, which, as the reporter and he had
supposed, was closed. However, the sailor was able to ascertain that the
outer bars had not been put up. It might, then, be concluded that the
convicts were there in the corral, and that very probably they had
fastened the gate in such a way that it could not be forced open.

Gideon Spilett and Pencroft listened.

Not a sound could be heard inside the palisade. The musmons and the
goats, sleeping no doubt in their huts, in no way disturbed the calm of
night.

The reporter and the sailor hearing nothing, asked themselves whether
they had not better scale the palisades and penetrate into the corral.
This would have been contrary to Cyrus Harding’s instructions.

It is true that the enterprise might succeed, but it might also fail.
Now, if the convicts were suspecting nothing, if they knew nothing of
the expedition against them, if, lastly, there now existed a chance
of surprising them, ought this chance to be lost by inconsiderately
attempting to cross the palisades?

This was not the reporter’s opinion. He thought it better to wait until
all the settlers were collected together before attempting to penetrate
into the corral. One thing was certain, that it was possible to reach
the palisade without being seen, and also that it did not appear to be
guarded. This point settled, there was nothing to be done but to return
to the cart, where they would consult.

Pencroft probably agreed with this decision, for he followed the
reporter without making any objection when the latter turned back to the
wood.

In a few minutes the engineer was made acquainted with the state of
affairs.

“Well,” said he, after a little thought, “I now have reason to believe
that the convicts are not in the corral.”

“We shall soon know,” said Pencroft, “when we have scaled the palisade.”

“To the corral, my friends!” said Cyrus Harding.

“Shall we leave the cart in the wood?” asked Neb.

“No,” replied the engineer, “it is our wagon of ammunition and
provisions, and, if necessary, it would serve as an entrenchment.”

“Forward, then!” said Gideon Spilett.

The cart emerged from the wood and began to roll noiselessly towards the
palisade. The darkness was now profound, the silence as complete as
when Pencroft and the reporter crept over the ground. The thick grass
completely muffled their footsteps. The colonists held themselves ready
to fire. Jup, at Pencroft’s orders, kept behind. Neb led Top in a leash,
to prevent him from bounding forward.

The clearing soon came in sight. It was deserted. Without hesitating,
the little band moved towards the palisade. In a short space of time the
dangerous zone was passed. Neb remained at the onagers’ heads to hold
them. The engineer, the reporter, Herbert, and Pencroft, proceeded to
the door, in order to ascertain if it was barricaded inside. It was
open!

“What do you say now?” asked the engineer, turning to the sailor and
Spilett.

Both were stupefied.

“I can swear,” said Pencroft, “that this gate was shut just now!”

The colonists now hesitated. Were the convicts in the corral when
Pencroft and the reporter made their reconnaissance? It could not be
doubted, as the gate then closed could only have been opened by them.
Were they still there, or had one of their number just gone out?

All these questions presented themselves simultaneously to the minds of
the colonists, but how could they be answered?

At that moment, Herbert, who had advanced a few steps into the
enclosure, drew back hurriedly, and seized Harding’s hand.

“What’s the matter?” asked the engineer.

“A light!”

“In the house?”

“Yes!”

All five advanced and indeed, through the window fronting them, they saw
glimmering a feeble light. Cyrus Harding made up his mind rapidly. “It
is our only chance,” said he to his companions, “of finding the convicts
collected in this house, suspecting nothing! They are in our power!
Forward!” The colonists crossed through the enclosure, holding their
guns ready in their hands. The cart had been left outside under the
charge of Jup and Top, who had been prudently tied to it.

Cyrus Harding, Pencroft, and Gideon Spilett on one side, Herbert and Neb
on the other, going along by the palisade, surveyed the absolutely dark
and deserted corral.

In a few moments they were near the closed door of the house.

Harding signed to his companions not to stir, and approached the window,
then feebly lighted by the inner light.

He gazed into the apartment.

On the table burned a lantern. Near the table was the bed formerly used
by Ayrton.

On the bed lay the body of a man.

Suddenly Cyrus Harding drew back, and in a hoarse voice,--“Ayrton!” he
exclaimed.

Immediately the door was forced rather than opened, and the colonists
rushed into the room.

Ayrton appeared to be asleep. His countenance showed that he had long
and cruelly suffered. On his wrists and ankles could be seen great
bruises.

Harding bent over him.

“Ayrton!” cried the engineer, seizing the arm of the man whom he had
just found again under such unexpected circumstances.

At this exclamation Ayrton opened his eyes, and, gazing at Harding, then
at the others,--

“You!” he cried, “you?”

“Ayrton! Ayrton!” repeated Harding.

“Where am I?”

“In the house in the corral!”

“Alone?”

“Yes!”

“But they will come back!” cried Ayrton. “Defend yourselves! defend
yourselves!”

And he fell back exhausted.

“Spilett,” exclaimed the engineer, “we may be attacked at any moment.
Bring the cart into the corral. Then, barricade the door, and all come
back here.”

Pencroft, Neb, and the reporter hastened to execute the engineer’s
orders. There was not a moment to be lost. Perhaps even now the cart was
in the hands of the convicts!

In a moment the reporter and his two companions had crossed the corral
and reached the gate of the palisade behind which Top was heard growling
sullenly.

The engineer, leaving Ayrton for an instant, came out ready to fire.
Herbert was at his side. Both surveyed the crest of the spur overlooking
the corral. If the convicts were lying in ambush there, they might knock
the settlers over one after the other.

At that moment the moon appeared in the east, above the black curtain of
the forest, and a white sheet of light spread over the interior of the
enclosure. The corral, with its clumps of trees, the little stream which
watered it, its wide carpet of grass, was suddenly illuminated. From
the side of the mountain, the house and a part of the palisade stood
out white in the moonlight. On the opposite side towards the door, the
enclosure remained dark. A black mass soon appeared. This was the cart
entering the circle of light, and Cyrus Harding could hear the noise
made by the door, as his companions shut it and fastened the interior
bars.

But, at that moment, Top, breaking loose, began to bark furiously and
rush to the back of the corral, to the right of the house.

“Be ready to fire, my friends!” cried Harding.

The colonists raised their pieces and waited the moment to fire.

Top still barked, and Jup, running towards the dog, uttered shrill
cries.

The colonists followed him, and reached the borders of the little
stream, shaded by large trees. And there, in the bright moonlight, what
did they see? Five corpses, stretched on the bank!

They were those of the convicts who, four months previously, had landed
on Lincoln Island!



Chapter 13

How had it happened? who had killed the convicts? Was it Ayrton? No, for
a moment before he was dreading their return.

But Ayrton was now in a profound stupor, from which it was no longer
possible to rouse him. After uttering those few words he had again
become unconscious, and had fallen back motionless on the bed.

The colonists, a prey to a thousand confused thoughts, under the
influence of violent excitement, waited all night, without leaving
Ayrton’s house, or returning to the spot where lay the bodies of the
convicts. It was very probable that Ayrton would not be able to throw
any light on the circumstances under which the bodies had been found,
since he himself was not aware that he was in the corral. But at any
rate he would be in a position to give an account of what had taken
place before this terrible execution. The next day Ayrton awoke from his
torpor, and his companions cordially manifested all the joy they felt,
on seeing him again, almost safe and sound, after a hundred and four
days separation.

Ayrton then in a few words recounted what had happened, or, at least, as
much as he knew.

The day after his arrival at the corral, on the 10th of last November,
at nightfall, he was surprised by the convicts, who had scaled the
palisade. They bound and gagged him; then he was led to a dark cavern,
at the foot of Mount Franklin, where the convicts had taken refuge.

His death had been decided upon, and the next day the convicts were
about to kill him, when one of them recognized him and called him by
the name which he bore in Australia. The wretches had no scruples as to
murdering Ayrton! They spared Ben Joyce!

But from that moment Ayrton was exposed to the importunities of his
former accomplices. They wished him to join them again, and relied upon
his aid to enable them to gain possession of Granite House, to penetrate
into that hitherto inaccessible dwelling, and to become masters of the
island, after murdering the colonists!

Ayrton remained firm. The once convict, now repentant and pardoned,
would rather die than betray his companions. Ayrton--bound, gagged, and
closely watched--lived in this cave for four months.

Nevertheless the convicts had discovered the corral a short time after
their arrival in the island, and since then they had subsisted on
Ayrton’s stores, but did not live at the corral.

On the 11th of November, two of the villains, surprised by the
colonists’ arrival, fired at Herbert, and one of them returned, boasting
of having killed one of the inhabitants of the island; but he returned
alone. His companion, as is known, fell by Cyrus Harding’s dagger.

Ayrton’s anxiety and despair may be imagined when he learned the news of
Herbert’s death. The settlers were now only four, and, as it seemed,
at the mercy of the convicts. After this event, and during all the
time that the colonists, detained by Herbert’s illness, remained in the
corral, the pirates did not leave their cavern, and even after they had
pillaged the plateau of Prospect Heights, they did not think it prudent
to abandon it.

The ill-treatment inflicted on Ayrton was now redoubled. His hands and
feet still bore the bloody marks of the cords which bound him day and
night. Every moment he expected to be put to death, nor did it appear
possible that he could escape.

Matters remained thus until the third week of February. The convicts,
still watching for a favorable opportunity, rarely quitted their
retreat, and only made a few hunting excursions, either to the interior
of the island, or the south coast.

Ayrton had no further news of his friends, and relinquished all hope
of ever seeing them again. At last, the unfortunate man, weakened
by ill-treatment, fell into a prostration so profound that sight and
hearing failed him. From that moment, that is to say, since the last two
days, he could give no information whatever of what had occurred.

“But, Captain Harding,” he added, “since I was imprisoned in that
cavern, how is it that I find myself in the corral?”

“How is it that the convicts are lying yonder dead, in the middle of the
enclosure?” answered the engineer.

“Dead!” cried Ayrton, half rising from his bed, notwithstanding his
weakness.

His companions supported him. He wished to get up, and with their
assistance he did so. They then proceeded together towards the little
stream.

It was now broad daylight.

There, on the bank, in the position in which they had been stricken
by death in its most instantaneous form, lay the corpses of the five
convicts!

Ayrton was astounded. Harding and his companions looked at him without
uttering a word. On a sign from the engineer, Neb and Pencroft examined
the bodies, already stiffened by the cold.

They bore no apparent trace of any wound.

Only, after carefully examining them, Pencroft found on the forehead of
one, on the chest of another, on the back of this one, on the shoulder
of that, a little red spot, a sort of scarcely visible bruise, the cause
of which it was impossible to conjecture.

“It is there that they have been struck!” said Cyrus Harding.

“But with what weapon?” cried the reporter.

“A weapon, lightning-like in its effects, and of which we have not the
secret!”

“And who has struck the blow?” asked Pencroft.

“The avenging power of the island,” replied Harding, “he who brought you
here, Ayrton, whose influence has once more manifested itself, who does
for us all that which we cannot do for ourselves, and who, his will
accomplished, conceals himself from us.”

“Let us make search for him, then!” exclaimed Pencroft.

“Yes, we will search for him,” answered Harding, “but we shall not
discover this powerful being who performs such wonders, until he pleases
to call us to him!”

This invisible protection, which rendered their own action unavailing,
both irritated and piqued the engineer. The relative inferiority which
it proved was of a nature to wound a haughty spirit. A generosity
evinced in such a manner as to elude all tokens of gratitude, implied a
sort of disdain for those on whom the obligation was conferred, which in
Cyrus Harding’s eyes marred, in some degree, the worth of the benefit.

“Let us search,” he resumed, “and God grant that we may some day be
permitted to prove to this haughty protector that he has not to deal
with ungrateful people! What would I not give could we repay him, by
rendering him in our turn, although at the price of our lives, some
signal service!”

From this day, the thoughts of the inhabitants of Lincoln Island were
solely occupied with the intended search. Everything incited them to
discover the answer to this enigma, an answer which would only be the
name of a man endowed with a truly inexplicable, and in some degree
superhuman power.

In a few minutes, the settlers re-entered the house, where their
influence soon restored to Ayrton his moral and physical energy. Neb
and Pencroft carried the corpses of the convicts into the forest, some
distance from the corral, and buried them deep in the ground.

Ayrton was then made acquainted with the facts which had occurred during
his seclusion. He learned Herbert’s adventures, and through what various
trials the colonists had passed. As to the settlers, they had despaired
of ever seeing Ayrton again, and had been convinced that the convicts
had ruthlessly murdered him.

“And now,” said Cyrus Harding, as he ended his recital, “a duty remains
for us to perform. Half of our task is accomplished, but although the
convicts are no longer to be feared, it is not owing to ourselves that
we are once more masters of the island.”

“Well!” answered Gideon Spilett, “let us search all this labyrinth of
the spurs of Mount Franklin. We will not leave a hollow, not a hole
unexplored! Ah! if ever a reporter found himself face to face with a
mystery, it is I who now speak to you, my friends!”

“And we will not return to Granite House until we have found our
benefactor,” said Herbert.

“Yes,” said the engineer, “we will do all that it is humanly possible to
do, but I repeat we shall not find him until he himself permits us.”

“Shall we stay at the corral?” asked Pencroft.

“We shall stay here,” answered Harding. “Provisions are abundant, and we
are here in the very center of the circle we have to explore. Besides,
if necessary, the cart will take us rapidly to Granite House.”

“Good!” answered the sailor. “Only I have a remark to make.”

“What is it?”

“Here is the fine season getting on, and we must not forget that we have
a voyage to make.”

“A voyage?” said Gideon Spilett.

“Yes, to Tabor Island,” answered Pencroft. “It is necessary to carry a
notice there to point out the position of our island and say that Ayrton
is here in case the Scotch yacht should come to take him off. Who knows
if it is not already too late?”

“But, Pencroft,” asked Ayrton, “how do you intend to make this voyage?”

“In the ‘Bonadventure.’”

“The ‘Bonadventure!’” exclaimed Ayrton. “She no longer exists.”

“My ‘Bonadventure’ exists no longer!” shouted Pencroft, bounding from
his seat.

“No,” answered Ayrton. “The convicts discovered her in her little harbor
only eight days ago, they put to sea in her--”

“And?” said Pencroft, his heart beating.

“And not having Bob Harvey to steer her, they ran on the rocks, and the
vessel went to pieces.”

“Oh, the villains, the cutthroats, the infamous scoundrels!” exclaimed
Pencroft.

“Pencroft,” said Herbert, taking the sailor’s hand, “we will build
another ‘Bonadventure’--a larger one. We have all the ironwork--all the
rigging of the brig at our disposal.”

“But do you know,” returned Pencroft, “that it will take at least five
or six months to build a vessel of from thirty to forty tons?”

“We can take our time,” said the reporter, “and we must give up the
voyage to Tabor Island for this year.”

“Oh, my ‘Bonadventure!’ my poor ‘Bonadventure!’” cried Pencroft, almost
broken-hearted at the destruction of the vessel of which he was so
proud.

The loss of the “Bonadventure” was certainly a thing to be lamented by
the colonists, and it was agreed that this loss should be repaired
as soon as possible. This settled, they now occupied themselves with
bringing their researches to bear on the most secret parts of the
island.

The exploration was commenced at daybreak on the 19th of February, and
lasted an entire week. The base of the mountain, with its spurs and
their numberless ramifications, formed a labyrinth of valleys and
elevations. It was evident that there, in the depths of these narrow
gorges, perhaps even in the interior of Mount Franklin itself, was the
proper place to pursue their researches. No part of the island could
have been more suitable to conceal a dwelling whose occupant wished to
remain unknown. But so irregular was the formation of the valleys that
Cyrus Harding was obliged to conduct the exploration in a strictly
methodical manner.

The colonists first visited the valley opening to the south of the
volcano, and which first received the waters of Falls River. There
Ayrton showed them the cavern where the convicts had taken refuge, and
in which he had been imprisoned until his removal to the corral. This
cavern was just as Ayrton had left it. They found there a considerable
quantity of ammunition and provisions, conveyed thither by the convicts
in order to form a reserve.

The whole of the valley bordering on the cave, shaded by fir and
other trees, was thoroughly explored, and on turning the point of the
southwestern spur, the colonists entered a narrower gorge similar to the
picturesque columns of basalt on the coast. Here the trees were fewer.
Stones took the place of grass. Goats and musmons gambolled among the
rocks. Here began the barren part of the island. It could already be
seen that, of the numerous valleys branching off at the base of Mount
Franklin, three only were wooded and rich in pasturage like that of the
corral, which bordered on the west on the Falls River valley, and on the
east on the Red Creek valley. These two streams, which lower down became
rivers by the absorption of several tributaries, were formed by all the
springs of the mountain and thus caused the fertility of its southern
part. As to the Mercy, it was more directly fed from ample springs
concealed under the cover of Jacamar Wood, and it was by springs of
this nature, spreading in a thousand streamlets, that the soil of the
Serpentine Peninsula was watered.

Now, of these three well-watered valleys, either might have served as a
retreat to some solitary who would have found there everything necessary
for life. But the settlers had already explored them, and in no part had
they discovered the presence of man.

Was it then in the depths of those barren gorges, in the midst of the
piles of rock, in the rugged northern ravines, among the streams of
lava, that this dwelling and its occupant would be found?

The northern part of Mount Franklin was at its base composed solely of
two valleys, wide, not very deep, without any appearance of vegetation,
strewn with masses of rock, paved with lava, and varied with great
blocks of mineral. This region required a long and careful exploration.
It contained a thousand cavities, comfortless no doubt, but perfectly
concealed and difficult of access.

The colonists even visited dark tunnels, dating from the volcanic
period, still black from the passage of the fire, and penetrated into
the depths of the mountain. They traversed these somber galleries,
waving lighted torches; they examined the smallest excavations; they
sounded the shallowest depths, but all was dark and silent. It did
not appear that the foot of man had ever before trodden these ancient
passages, or that his arm had ever displaced one of these blocks, which
remained as the volcano had cast them up above the waters, at the time
of the submersion of the island.

However, although these passages appeared to be absolutely deserted, and
the obscurity was complete, Cyrus Harding was obliged to confess that
absolute silence did not reign there.

On arriving at the end of one of these gloomy caverns, extending several
hundred feet into the interior of the mountain, he was surprised to hear
a deep rumbling noise, increased in intensity by the sonorousness of the
rocks.

Gideon Spilett, who accompanied him, also heard these distant
mutterings, which indicated a revivification of the subterranean fires.
Several times both listened, and they agreed that some chemical process
was taking place in the bowels of the earth.

“Then the volcano is not totally extinct?” said the reporter.

“It is possible that since our exploration of the crater,” replied Cyrus
Harding, “some change has occurred. Any volcano, although considered
extinct, may evidently again burst forth.”

“But if an eruption of Mount Franklin occurred,” asked Spilett, “would
there not be some danger to Lincoln Island?”

“I do not think so,” answered the reporter. “The crater, that is to
say, the safety-valve, exists, and the overflow of smoke and lava, would
escape, as it did formerly, by this customary outlet.”

“Unless the lava opened a new way for itself towards the fertile parts
of the island!”

“And why, my dear Spilett,” answered Cyrus Harding, “should it not
follow the road naturally traced out for it?”

“Well, volcanoes are capricious,” returned the reporter.

“Notice,” answered the engineer, “that the inclination of Mount Franklin
favors the flow of water towards the valleys which we are exploring just
now. To turn aside this flow, an earthquake would be necessary to change
the mountain’s center of gravity.”

“But an earthquake is always to be feared at these times,” observed
Gideon Spilett.

“Always,” replied the engineer, “especially when the subterranean forces
begin to awake, as they risk meeting with some obstruction, after a long
rest. Thus, my dear Spilett, an eruption would be a serious thing
for us, and it would be better that the volcano should not have the
slightest desire to wake up. But we could not prevent it, could we? At
any rate, even if it should occur, I do not think Prospect Heights would
be seriously threatened. Between them and the mountain, the ground
is considerably depressed, and if the lava should ever take a course
towards the lake, it would be cast on the downs and the neighboring
parts of Shark Gulf.”

“We have not yet seen any smoke at the top of the mountain, to indicate
an approaching eruption,” said Gideon Spilett.

“No,” answered Harding, “not a vapor escapes from the crater, for it
was only yesterday that I attentively surveyed the summit. But it
is probable that at the lower part of the chimney, time may have
accumulated rocks, cinders, hardened lava, and that this valve of which
I spoke, may at any time become overcharged. But at the first serious
effort, every obstacle will disappear, and you may be certain, my dear
Spilett, that neither the island, which is the boiler, nor the
volcano, which is the chimney, will burst under the pressure of gas.
Nevertheless, I repeat, it would be better that there should not be an
eruption.”

“And yet we are not mistaken,” remarked the reporter. “Mutterings can be
distinctly heard in the very bowels of the volcano!”

“You are right,” said the engineer, again listening attentively. “There
can be no doubt of it. A commotion is going on there, of which we can
neither estimate the importance nor the ultimate result.”

Cyrus Harding and Spilett, on coming out, rejoined their companions, to
whom they made known the state of affairs.

“Very well!” cried Pencroft, “The volcano wants to play his pranks! Let
him try, if he likes! He will find his master!”

“Who?” asked Neb.

“Our good genius, Neb, our good genius, who will shut his mouth for him,
if he so much as pretends to open it!”

As may be seen, the sailor’s confidence in the tutelary deity of his
island was absolute, and, certainly, the occult power, manifested until
now in so many inexplicable ways, appeared to be unlimited; but also it
knew how to escape the colonists’ most minute researches, for, in
spite of all their efforts, in spite of the more than zeal,--the
obstinacy,--with which they carried on their exploration, the retreat of
the mysterious being could not be discovered.

From the 19th to the 20th of February the circle of investigation was
extended to all the northern region of Lincoln Island, whose most secret
nooks were explored. The colonists even went the length of tapping every
rock. The search was extended to the extreme verge of the mountain. It
was explored thus to the very summit of the truncated cone terminating
the first row of rocks, then to the upper ridge of the enormous hat, at
the bottom of which opened the crater.

They did more; they visited the gulf, now extinct, but in whose depths
the rumbling could be distinctly heard. However, no sign of smoke or
vapor, no heating of the rock, indicated an approaching eruption.
But neither there, nor in any other part of Mount Franklin, did the
colonists find any traces of him of whom they were in search.

Their investigations were then directed to the downs. They carefully
examined the high lava-cliffs of Shark Gulf from the base to the crest,
although it was extremely difficult to reach even the level of the gulf.
No one!--nothing!

Indeed, in these three words was summed up so much fatigue uselessly
expended, so much energy producing no results, that somewhat of anger
mingled with the discomfiture of Cyrus Harding and his companions.

It was now time to think of returning, for these researches could not be
prolonged indefinitely. The colonists were certainly right in believing
that the mysterious being did not reside on the surface of the island,
and the wildest fancies haunted their excited imaginations. Pencroft
and Neb, particularly, were not contented with the mystery, but allowed
their imaginations to wander into the domain of the supernatural.

On the 25th of February the colonists re-entered Granite House, and by
means of the double cord, carried by an arrow to the threshold of the
door, they re-established communication between their habitation and the
ground.

A month later they commemorated, on the 25th of March, the third
anniversary of their arrival on Lincoln Island.



Chapter 14

Three years had passed away since the escape of the prisoners from
Richmond, and how often during those three years had they spoken of
their country, always present in their thoughts!

They had no doubt that the civil war was at an end, and to them it
appeared impossible that the just cause of the North had not triumphed.
But what had been the incidents of this terrible war? How much blood had
it not cost? How many of their friends must have fallen in the struggle?
They often spoke of these things, without as yet being able to foresee
the day when they would be permitted once more to see their country.
To return thither, were it but for a few days, to renew the social link
with the inhabited world, to establish a communication between their
native land and their island, then to pass the longest, perhaps the
best, portion of their existence in this colony, founded by them,
and which would then be dependent on their country, was this a dream
impossible to realize?

There were only two ways of accomplishing it--either a ship must appear
off Lincoln Island, or the colonists must themselves build a vessel
strong enough to sail to the nearest land.

“Unless,” said Pencroft, “our good genius, himself provides us with the
means of returning to our country.”

And, really, had any one told Pencroft and Neb that a ship of 300 tons
was waiting for them in Shark Gulf or at Port Balloon, they would not
even have made a gesture of surprise. In their state of mind nothing
appeared improbable.

But Cyrus Harding, less confident, advised them to confine themselves to
fact, and more especially so with regard to the building of a vessel--a
really urgent work, since it was for the purpose of depositing, as
soon as possible, at Tabor Island a document indicating Ayrton’s new
residence.

As the “Bonadventure” no longer existed, six months at least would
be required for the construction of a new vessel. Now winter was
approaching, and the voyage would not be made before the following
spring.

“We have time to get everything ready for the fine season,” remarked
the engineer, who was consulting with Pencroft about these matters. “I
think, therefore, my friend, that since we have to rebuild our vessel
it will be best to give her larger dimensions. The arrival of the Scotch
yacht at Tabor Island is very uncertain. It may even be that, having
arrived several months ago, she has again sailed after having vainly
searched for some trace of Ayrton. Will it not then be best to build
a ship which, if necessary, could take us either to the Polynesian
Archipelago or to New Zealand? What do you think?”

“I think, captain,” answered the sailor; “I think that you are as
capable of building a large vessel as a small one. Neither the wood nor
the tools are wanting. It is only a question of time.”

“And how many months would be required to build a vessel of from 250 to
300 tons?” asked Harding.

“Seven or eight months at least,” replied Pencroft. “But it must not be
forgotten that winter is drawing near, and that in severe frost wood is
difficult to work. We must calculate on several weeks delay, and if our
vessel is ready by next November we may think ourselves very lucky.”

“Well,” replied Cyrus Harding, “that will be exactly the most favorable
time for undertaking a voyage of any importance, either to Tabor Island
or to a more distant land.”

“So it will, captain,” answered the sailor. “Make out your plans then;
the workmen are ready, and I imagine that Ayrton can lend us a good
helping hand.”

The colonists, having been consulted, approved the engineer’s plan,
and it was, indeed, the best thing to be done. It is true that the
construction of a ship of from two to three hundred tons would be great
labor, but the colonists had confidence in themselves, justified by
their previous success.

Cyrus Harding then busied himself in drawing the plan of the vessel and
making the model. During this time his companions employed themselves in
felling and carting trees to furnish the ribs, timbers, and planks.
The forest of the Far West supplied the best oaks and elms. They took
advantage of the opening already made on their last excursion to form a
practicable road, which they named the Far West Road, and the trees were
carried to the Chimneys, where the dockyard was established. As to
the road in question, the choice of trees had rendered its direction
somewhat capricious, but at the same time it facilitated the access to a
large part of the Serpentine Peninsula.

It was important that the trees should be quickly felled and cut up, for
they could not be used while yet green, and some time was necessary to
allow them to get seasoned. The carpenters, therefore, worked vigorously
during the month of April, which was troubled only by a few equinoctial
gales of some violence. Master Jup aided them dexterously, either by
climbing to the top of a tree to fasten the ropes or by lending his
stout shoulders to carry the lopped trunks.

All this timber was piled up under a large shed, built near the
Chimneys, and there awaited the time for use.

The month of April was tolerably fine, as October often is in the
northern zone. At the same time other work was actively continued, and
soon all trace of devastation disappeared from the plateau of
Prospect Heights. The mill was rebuilt, and new buildings rose in the
poultry-yard. It had appeared necessary to enlarge their dimensions,
for the feathered population had increased considerably. The stable
now contained five onagers, four of which were well broken, and allowed
themselves to be either driven or ridden, and a little colt. The colony
now possessed a plow, to which the onagers were yoked like regular
Yorkshire or Kentucky oxen. The colonists divided their work, and their
arms never tired. Then who could have enjoyed better health than these
workers, and what good humor enlivened the evenings in Granite House as
they formed a thousand plans for the future!

As a matter of course Ayrton shared the common lot in every respect,
and there was no longer any talk of his going to live at the corral.
Nevertheless he was still sad and reserved, and joined more in the work
than in the pleasures of his companions. But he was a valuable workman
at need--strong, skilful, ingenious, intelligent. He was esteemed and
loved by all, and he could not be ignorant of it.

In the meanwhile the corral was not abandoned. Every other day one of
the settlers, driving the cart or mounted on an onager, went to look
after the flock of musmons and goats and bring back the supply of
milk required by Neb. These excursions at the same time afforded
opportunities for hunting. Therefore Herbert and Gideon Spilett, with
Top in front, traversed more often than their companions the road to
the corral, and with the capital guns which they carried, capybaras,
agouties, kangaroos, and wild pigs for large game, ducks, grouse,
jacamars, and snipe for small game, were never wanting in the house.
The produce of the warren, of the oyster-bed, several turtles which were
taken, excellent salmon which came up the Mercy, vegetables from the
plateau, wild fruit from the forest, were riches upon riches, and Neb,
the head cook, could scarcely by himself store them away.

The telegraphic wire between the corral and Granite House had of course
been repaired, and it was worked whenever one or other of the settlers
was at the corral and found it necessary to spend the night there.
Besides, the island was safe now and no attacks were to be feared, at
any rate from men.

However, that which had happened might happen again. A descent of
pirates, or even of escaped convicts, was always to be feared. It was
possible that companions or accomplices of Bob Harvey had been in the
secret of his plans, and might be tempted to imitate him. The colonists,
therefore, were careful to observe the sea around the island, and every
day their telescope covered the horizon enclosed by Union and Washington
Bays. When they went to the corral they examined the sea to the west
with no less attention, and by climbing the spur their gaze extended
over a large section of the western horizon.

Nothing suspicious was discerned, but still it was necessary for them to
be on their guard.

The engineer one evening imparted to his friends a plan which he had
conceived for fortifying the corral. It appeared prudent to him to
heighten the palisade and to flank it with a sort of blockhouse, which,
if necessary, the settlers could hold against the enemy. Granite House
might, by its very position, be considered impregnable; therefore the
corral with its buildings, its stores, and the animals it contained,
would always be the object of pirates, whoever they were, who might land
on the island, and should the colonists be obliged to shut themselves
up there they ought also to be able to defend themselves without any
disadvantage. This was a project which might be left for consideration,
and they were, besides, obliged to put off its execution until the next
spring.

About the 15th of May the keel of the new vessel lay along the dockyard,
and soon the stem and stern-post, mortised at each of its extremities,
rose almost perpendicularly. The keel, of good oak, measured 110 feet
in length, this allowing a width of five-and-twenty feet to the midship
beam. But this was all the carpenters could do before the arrival of the
frosts and bad weather. During the following week they fixed the first
of the stern timbers, but were then obliged to suspend work.

During the last days of the month the weather was extremely bad. The
wind blew from the east, sometimes with the violence of a tempest. The
engineer was somewhat uneasy on account of the dockyard shed--which
besides, he could not have established in any other place near to
Granite House--for the islet only imperfectly sheltered the shore from
the fury of the open sea, and in great storms the waves beat against the
very foot of the granite cliff.

But, very fortunately, these fears were not realized. The wind shifted
to the southeast, and there the beach of Granite House was completely
covered by Flotsam Point.

Pencroft and Ayrton, the most zealous workmen at the new vessel, pursued
their labor as long as they could. They were not men to mind the wind
tearing at their hair, nor the rain wetting them to the skin, and a blow
from a hammer is worth just as much in bad as in fine weather. But when
a severe frost succeeded this wet period, the wood, its fibers acquiring
the hardness of iron, became extremely difficult to work, and about the
10th of June shipbuilding was obliged to be entirely discontinued.

Cyrus Harding and his companions had not omitted to observe how severe
was the temperature during the winters of Lincoln Island. The cold was
comparable to that experienced in the States of New England, situated at
almost the same distance from the equator. In the northern hemisphere,
or at any rate in the part occupied by British America and the north of
the United States, this phenomenon is explained by the flat conformation
of the territories bordering on the pole, and on which there is no
intumescence of the soil to oppose any obstacle to the north winds;
here, in Lincoln Island, this explanation would not suffice.

“It has even been observed,” remarked Harding one day to his companions,
“that in equal latitudes the islands and coast regions are less tried by
the cold than inland countries. I have often heard it asserted that the
winters of Lombardy, for example, are not less rigorous than those of
Scotland, which results from the sea restoring during the winter the
heat which it received during the summer. Islands are, therefore, in a
better situation for benefiting by this restitution.”

“But then, Captain Harding,” asked Herbert, “why does Lincoln Island
appear to escape the common law?”

“That is difficult to explain,” answered the engineer. “However, I
should be disposed to conjecture that this peculiarity results from the
situation of the island in the Southern Hemisphere, which, as you know,
my boy, is colder than the Northern Hemisphere.”

“Yes,” said Herbert, “and icebergs are met with in lower latitudes in
the south than in the north of the Pacific.”

“That is true,” remarked Pencroft, “and when I have been serving on
board whalers I have seen icebergs off Cape Horn.”

“The severe cold experienced in Lincoln Island,” said Gideon Spilett,
“may then perhaps be explained by the presence of floes or icebergs
comparatively near to Lincoln Island.”

“Your opinion is very admissible indeed, my dear Spilett,” answered
Cyrus Harding, “and it is evidently to the proximity of icebergs that
we owe our rigorous winters. I would draw your attention also to an
entirely physical cause, which renders the Southern colder than the
Northern Hemisphere. In fact, since the sun is nearer to this hemisphere
during the summer, it is necessarily more distant during the winter.
This explains then the excess of temperature in the two seasons, for, if
we find the winters very cold in Lincoln Island, we must not forget that
the summers here, on the contrary, are very hot.”

“But why, if you please, captain,” asked Pencroft, knitting his brows,
“why should our hemisphere, as you say, be so badly divided? It isn’t
just, that!”

“Friend Pencroft,” answered the engineer, laughing, “whether just
or not, we must submit to it, and here lies the reason for this
peculiarity. The earth does not describe a circle around the sun, but
an ellipse, as it must by the laws of rational mechanics. Now, the earth
occupies one of the foci of the ellipse, and so at one point in its
course is at its apogee, that is, at its farthest from the sun, and
at another point it is at its perigee, or nearest to the sun. Now it
happens that it is during the winter of the southern countries that
it is at its most distant point from the sun, and consequently, in a
situation for those regions to feel the greatest cold. Nothing can be
done to prevent that, and men, Pencroft, however learned they may be,
can never change anything of the cosmographical order established by God
Himself.”

“And yet,” added Pencroft, “the world is very learned. What a big book,
captain, might be made with all that is known!”

“And what a much bigger book still with all that is not known!” answered
Harding.

At last, for one reason or another, the month of June brought the cold
with its accustomed intensity, and the settlers were often confined to
Granite House. Ah! how wearisome this imprisonment was to them, and more
particularly to Gideon Spilett.

“Look here,” said he to Neb one day, “I would give you by notarial
deed all the estates which will come to me some day, if you were a good
enough fellow to go, no matter where, and subscribe to some newspaper
for me! Decidedly the thing that is most essential to my happiness is
the knowing every morning what has happened the day before in other
places than this!”

Neb began to laugh.

“‘Pon my word,” he replied, “the only thing I think about is my daily
work!”

The truth was that indoors as well as out there was no want of work.

The colony of Lincoln Island was now at its highest point of prosperity,
achieved by three years of continued hard work. The destruction of the
brig had been a new source of riches. Without speaking of the complete
rig which would serve for the vessel now on the stocks, utensils and
tools of all sorts, weapons and ammunition, clothes and instruments,
were now piled in the storerooms of Granite House. It had not even
been necessary to resort again to the manufacture of the coarse felt
materials. Though the colonists had suffered from cold during their
first winter, the bad season might now come without their having any
reason to dread its severity. Linen was plentiful also, and besides,
they kept it with extreme care. From chloride of sodium, which is
nothing else than sea salt, Cyrus Harding easily extracted the soda and
chlorine. The soda, which it was easy to change into carbonate of soda,
and the chlorine, of which he made chloride of lime, were employed for
various domestic purposes, and especially in bleaching linen. Besides,
they did not wash more than four times a year, as was done by families
in the olden times, and it may be added, that Pencroft and Gideon
Spilett, while waiting for the postman to bring him his newspaper,
distinguished themselves as washermen.

So passed the winter months, June, July, and August. They were severe,
and the average observations of the thermometer did not give more than
eight degrees of Fahrenheit. It was therefore lower in temperature than
the preceding winter. But then, what splendid fires blazed continually
on the hearths of Granite House, the smoke marking the granite wall with
long, zebra-like streaks! Fuel was not spared, as it grew naturally a
few steps from them. Besides, the chips of the wood destined for the
construction of the ship enabled them to economize the coal, which
required more trouble to transport.

Men and animals were all well. Master Jup was a little chilly, it must
be confessed. This was perhaps his only weakness, and it was necessary
to make him a well-padded dressing-gown. But what a servant he was,
clever, zealous, indefatigable, not indiscreet, not talkative, and
he might have been with reason proposed as a model for all his biped
brothers in the Old and New Worlds!

“As for that,” said Pencroft, “when one has four hands at one’s service,
of course one’s work ought to be done so much the better!”

And indeed the intelligent creature did it well.

During the seven months which had passed since the last researches made
round the mountain, and during the month of September, which brought
back fine weather, nothing was heard of the genius of the island. His
power was not manifested in any way. It is true that it would have
been superfluous, for no incident occurred to put the colonists to any
painful trial.

Cyrus Harding even observed that if by chance the communication between
the unknown and the tenants of Granite House had ever been established
through the granite, and if Top’s instinct had as it were felt it, there
was no further sign of it during this period. The dog’s growling
had entirely ceased, as well as the uneasiness of the orang. The two
friends--for they were such--no longer prowled round the opening of the
inner well, nor did they bark or whine in that singular way which from
the first the engineer had noticed. But could he be sure that this was
all that was to be said about this enigma, and that he should never
arrive at a solution? Could he be certain that some conjuncture would
not occur which would bring the mysterious personage on the scene? who
could tell what the future might have in reserve?

At last the winter was ended, but an event, the consequences of which
might be serious occurred in the first days of the returning spring.

On the 7th of September, Cyrus Harding, having observed the crater, saw
smoke curling round the summit of the mountain, its first vapors rising
in the air.



Chapter 15

The colonists, warned by the engineer, left their work and gazed in
silence at the summit of Mount Franklin.

The volcano had awoke, and the vapor had penetrated the mineral layer
heaped at the bottom of the crater. But would the subterranean fires
provoke any violent eruption? This was an event which could not be
foreseen. However, even while admitting the possibility of an eruption,
it was not probable that the whole of Lincoln Island would suffer from
it. The flow of volcanic matter is not always disastrous, and the island
had already undergone this trial, as was shown by the streams of lava
hardened on the northern slopes of the mountain. Besides, from the shape
of the crater--the opening broken in the upper edge--the matter would be
thrown to the side opposite the fertile regions of the island.

However, the past did not necessarily answer for the future. Often, at
the summit of volcanoes, the old craters close and new ones open.
This had occurred in the two hemispheres--at Etna, Popocatepetl, at
Orizabaand on the eve of an eruption there is everything to be feared.
In fact, an earthquake--a phenomenon which often accompanies volcanic
eruption--is enough to change the interior arrangement of a mountain,
and to open new outlets for the burning lava.

Cyrus Harding explained these things to his companions, and, without
exaggerating the state of things, he told them all the pros and cons.
After all, they could not prevent it. It did not appear likely that
Granite House would be threatened unless the ground was shaken by an
earthquake. But the corral would be in great danger should a new crater
open in the southern side of Mount Franklin.

From that day the smoke never disappeared from the top of the mountain,
and it could even be perceived that it increased in height and
thickness, without any flame mingling in its heavy volumes. The
phenomenon was still concentrated in the lower part of the central
crater.

However, with the fine days work had been continued. The building of the
vessel was hastened as much as possible, and, by means of the waterfall
on the shore, Cyrus Harding managed to establish an hydraulic sawmill,
which rapidly cut up the trunks of trees into planks and joists. The
mechanism of this apparatus was as simple as those used in the rustic
sawmills of Norway. A first horizontal movement to move the piece of
wood, a second vertical movement to move the saw--this was all that was
wanted; and the engineer succeeded by means of a wheel, two cylinders,
and pulleys properly arranged. Towards the end of the month of September
the skeleton of the vessel, which was to be rigged as a schooner, lay
in the dockyard. The ribs were almost entirely completed, and, all the
timbers having been sustained by a provisional band, the shape of the
vessel could already be seen. The schooner, sharp in the bows, very
slender in the after-part, would evidently be suitable for a long
voyage, if wanted; but laying the planking would still take a
considerable time. Very fortunately, the iron work of the pirate brig
had been saved after the explosion. From the planks and injured ribs
Pencroft and Ayrton had extracted the bolts and a large quantity
of copper nails. It was so much work saved for the smiths, but the
carpenters had much to do.

Shipbuilding was interrupted for a week for the harvest, the haymaking,
and the gathering in of the different crops on the plateau. This work
finished, every moment was devoted to finishing the schooner. When night
came the workmen were really quite exhausted. So as not to lose any
time they had changed the hours for their meals; they dined at twelve
o’clock, and only had their supper when daylight failed them. They then
ascended to Granite House, when they were always ready to go to bed.

Sometimes, however, when the conversation bore on some interesting
subject the hour for sleep was delayed for a time. The colonists then
spoke of the future, and talked willingly of the changes which a voyage
in the schooner to inhabited lands would make in their situation.
But always, in the midst of these plans, prevailed the thought of a
subsequent return to Lincoln Island. Never would they abandon this
colony, founded with so much labor and with such success, and to which
a communication with America would afford a fresh impetus. Pencroft and
Neb especially hoped to end their days there.

“Herbert,” said the sailor, “you will never abandon Lincoln Island?”

“Never, Pencroft, and especially if you make up your mind to stay
there.”

“That was made up long ago, my boy,” answered Pencroft. “I shall expect
you. You will bring me your wife and children, and I shall make jolly
chaps of your youngsters!”

“That’s agreed,” replied Herbert, laughing and blushing at the same
time.

“And you, Captain Harding,” resumed Pencroft enthusiastically, “you will
be still the governor of the island! Ah, how many inhabitants could it
support? Ten thousand at least!”

They talked in this way, allowing Pencroft to run on, and at last the
reporter actually started a newspaper--the New Lincoln Herald!

So is man’s heart. The desire to perform a work which will endure, which
will survive him, is the origin of his superiority over all other living
creatures here below. It is this which has established his dominion, and
this it is which justifies it, over all the world.

After that, who knows if Jup and Top had not themselves their little
dream of the future.

Ayrton silently said to himself that he would like to see Lord Glenarvan
again and show himself to all restored.

One evening, on the 15th of October, the conversation was prolonged
later than usual. It was nine o’clock. Already, long badly concealed
yawns gave warning of the hour of rest, and Pencroft was proceeding
towards his bed, when the electric bell, placed in the dining-room,
suddenly rang.

All were there, Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, Ayrton,
Pencroft, Neb. Therefore none of the colonists were at the corral.

Cyrus Harding rose. His companions stared at each other, scarcely
believing their ears.

“What does that mean?” cried Neb. “Was it the devil who rang it?”

No one answered.

“The weather is stormy,” observed Herbert. “Might not its influence of
electricity--”

Herbert did not finish his phrase. The engineer, towards whom all eyes
were turned, shook his head negatively.

“We must wait,” said Gideon Spilett. “If it is a signal, whoever it may
be who has made it, he will renew it.”

“But who do you think it is?” cried Neb.

“Who?” answered Pencroft, “but he--”

The sailor’s sentence was cut short by a new tinkle of the bell.

Harding went to the apparatus, and sent this question to the corral:--

“What do you want?”

A few moments later the needle, moving on the alphabetic dial, gave this
reply to the tenants of Granite House:--

“Come to the corral immediately.”

“At last!” exclaimed Harding.

Yes! At last! The mystery was about to be unveiled. The colonists’
fatigue had disappeared before the tremendous interest which was about
to urge them to the corral, and all wish for rest had ceased. Without
having uttered a word, in a few moments they had left Granite House,
and were standing on the beach. Jup and Top alone were left behind. They
could do without them.

The night was black. The new moon had disappeared at the same time as
the sun. As Herbert had observed, great stormy clouds formed a lowering
and heavy vault, preventing any star rays. A few lightning flashes,
reflections from a distant storm, illuminated the horizon.

It was possible that a few hours later the thunder would roll over the
island itself. The night was very threatening.

But however deep the darkness was, it would not prevent them from
finding the familiar road to the corral.

They ascended the left bank of the Mercy, reached the plateau, passed
the bridge over Creek Glycerine, and advanced through the forest.

They walked at a good pace, a prey to the liveliest emotions. There was
no doubt but that they were now going to learn the long-searched-for
answer to the enigma, the name of that mysterious being, so deeply
concerned in their life, so generous in his influence, so powerful
in his action! Must not this stranger have indeed mingled with their
existence, have known the smallest details, have heard all that was said
in Granite House, to have been able always to act in the very nick of
time?

Every one, wrapped up in his own reflections, pressed forward. Under the
arch of trees the darkness was such that even the edge of the road
could not be seen. Not a sound in the forest. Both animals and birds,
influenced by the heaviness of the atmosphere, remained motionless
and silent. Not a breath disturbed the leaves. The footsteps of the
colonists alone resounded on the hardened ground.

During the first quarter of an hour the silence was only interrupted by
this remark from Pencroft:--

“We ought to have brought a torch.”

And by this reply from the engineer:--

“We shall find one at the corral.”

Harding and his companions had left Granite House at twelve minutes past
nine. At forty-seven minutes past nine they had traversed three out of
the five miles which separated the mouth of the Mercy from the corral.

At that moment sheets of lightning spread over the island and illumined
the dark trees. The flashes dazzled and almost blinded them. Evidently
the storm would not be long in bursting forth.

The flashes gradually became brighter and more rapid. Distant thunder
growled in the sky. The atmosphere was stifling.

The colonists proceeded as if they were urged onwards by some
irresistible force.

At ten o’clock a vivid flash showed them the palisade, and as they
reached the gate the storm burst forth with tremendous fury.

In a minute the corral was crossed, and Harding stood before the hut.

Probably the house was occupied by the stranger, since it was from
thence that the telegram had been sent. However, no light shone through
the window.

The engineer knocked at the door.

No answer.

Cyrus Harding opened the door, and the settlers entered the room, which
was perfectly dark. A light was struck by Neb, and in a few moments the
lantern was lighted and the light thrown into every corner of the room.

There was no one there. Everything was in the state in which it had been
left.

“Have we been deceived by an illusion?” murmured Cyrus Harding.

No! that was not possible! The telegram had clearly said,--

“Come to the corral immediately.”

They approached the table specially devoted to the use of the wire.
Everything was in order--the pile on the box containing it, as well as
all the apparatus.

“Who came here the last time?” asked the engineer.

“I did, captain,” answered Ayrton.

“And that was--”

“Four days ago.”

“Ah! a note!” cried Herbert, pointing to a paper lying on the table.

On this paper were written these words in English:--

“Follow the new wire.”

“Forward!” cried Harding, who understood that the despatch had not been
sent from the corral, but from the mysterious retreat, communicating
directly with Granite House by means of a supplementary wire joined to
the old one.

Neb took the lighted lantern, and all left the corral. The storm
then burst forth with tremendous violence. The interval between each
lightning-flash and each thunder-clap diminished rapidly. The summit
of the volcano, with its plume of vapor, could be seen by occasional
flashes.

There was no telegraphic communication in any part of the corral between
the house and the palisade; but the engineer, running straight to the
first post, saw by the light of a flash a new wire hanging from the
isolator to the ground.

“There it is!” said he.

This wire lay along the ground, and was surrounded with an isolating
substance like a submarine cable, so as to assure the free transmission
of the current. It appeared to pass through the wood and the southern
spurs of the mountain, and consequently it ran towards the west.

“Follow it!” said Cyrus Harding.

And the settlers immediately pressed forward, guided by the wire.

The thunder continued to roar with such violence that not a word could
be heard. However, there was no occasion for speaking, but to get
forward as fast as possible.

Cyrus Harding and his companions then climbed the spur rising between
the corral valley and that of Falls River, which they crossed at its
narrowest part. The wire, sometimes stretched over the lower branches
of the trees, sometimes lying on the ground, guided them surely. The
engineer had supposed that the wire would perhaps stop at the bottom of
the valley, and that the stranger’s retreat would be there.

Nothing of the sort. They were obliged to ascend the south-western spur,
and re-descend on that arid plateau terminated by the strangely-wild
basalt cliff. From time to time one of the colonists stooped down and
felt for the wire with his hands; but there was now no doubt that the
wire was running directly towards the sea. There, to a certainty, in the
depths of those rocks, was the dwelling so long sought for in vain.

The sky was literally on fire. Flash succeeded flash. Several struck the
summit of the volcano in the midst of the thick smoke. It appeared there
as if the mountain was vomiting flame. At a few minutes to eleven the
colonists arrived on the high cliff overlooking the ocean to the west.
The wind had risen. The surf roared 500 feet below.

Harding calculated that they had gone a mile and a half from the corral.

At this point the wire entered among the rocks, following the steep side
of a narrow ravine. The settlers followed it at the risk of occasioning
a fall of the slightly-balanced rocks, and being dashed into the sea.
The descent was extremely perilous, but they did not think of the
danger; they were no longer masters of themselves, and an irresistible
attraction drew them towards this mysterious place as the magnet draws
iron.

Thus they almost unconsciously descended this ravine, which even in
broad daylight would have been considered impracticable.

The stones rolled and sparkled like fiery balls when they crossed
through the gleams of light. Harding was first--Ayrton last. On they
went, step by step. Now they slid over the slippery rock; then they
struggled to their feet and scrambled on.

At last the wire touched the rocks on the beach. The colonists had
reached the bottom of the basalt cliff.

There appeared a narrow ridge, running horizontally and parallel with
the sea. The settlers followed the wire along it. They had not gone a
hundred paces when the ridge by a moderate incline sloped down to the
level of the sea.

The engineer seized the wire and found that it disappeared beneath the
waves.

His companions were stupefied.

A cry of disappointment, almost a cry of despair, escaped them! Must
they then plunge beneath the water and seek there for some submarine
cavern? In their excited state they would not have hesitated to do it.

The engineer stopped them.

He led his companions to a hollow in the rocks, and there--

“We must wait,” said he. “The tide is high. At low water the way will be
open.”

“But what can make you think-” asked Pencroft.

“He would not have called us if the means had been wanting to enable us
to reach him!”

Cyrus Harding spoke in a tone of such thorough conviction that no
objection was raised. His remark, besides, was logical. It was quite
possible that an opening, practicable at low water, though hidden now by
the high tide, opened at the foot of the cliff.

There was some time to wait. The colonists remained silently crouching
in a deep hollow. Rain now began to fall in torrents. The thunder was
re-echoed among the rocks with a grand sonorousness.

The colonists’ emotion was great. A thousand strange and extraordinary
ideas crossed their brains, and they expected some grand and superhuman
apparition, which alone could come up to the notion they had formed of
the mysterious genius of the island.

At midnight, Harding carrying the lantern, descended to the beach to
reconnoiter.

The engineer was not mistaken. The beginning of an immense excavation
could be seen under the water. There the wire, bending at a right angle,
entered the yawning gulf.

Cyrus Harding returned to his companions, and said simply,--

“In an hour the opening will be practicable.”

“It is there, then?” said Pencroft.

“Did you doubt it?” returned Harding.

“But this cavern must be filled with water to a certain height,”
 observed Herbert.

“Either the cavern will be completely dry,” replied Harding, “and in
that case we can traverse it on foot, or it will not be dry, and some
means of transport will be put at our disposal.”

An hour passed. All climbed down through the rain to the level of the
sea. There was now eight feet of the opening above the water. It was
like the arch of a bridge, under which rushed the foaming water.

Leaning forward, the engineer saw a black object floating on the
water. He drew it towards him. It was a boat, moored to some interior
projection of the cave. This boat was iron-plated. Two oars lay at the
bottom.

“Jump in!” said Harding.

In a moment the settlers were in the boat. Neb and Ayrton took the
oars, Pencroft the rudder. Cyrus Harding in the bows, with the lantern,
lighted the way.

The elliptical roof, under which the boat at first passed, suddenly
rose; but the darkness was too deep, and the light of the lantern too
slight, for either the extent, length, height, or depth of the cave to
be ascertained. Solemn silence reigned in this basaltic cavern. Not a
sound could penetrate into it, even the thunder peals could not pierce
its thick sides.

Such immense caves exist in various parts of the world, natural crypts
dating from the geological epoch of the globe. Some are filled by the
sea; others contain entire lakes in their sides. Such is Fingal’s Cave,
in the island of Staffa, one of the Hebrides; such are the caves of
Morgat, in the bay of Douarnenez, in Brittany, the caves of Bonifacio,
in Corsica, those of Lyse-Fjord, in Norway; such are the immense Mammoth
caverns in Kentucky, 500 feet in height, and more than twenty miles in
length! In many parts of the globe, nature has excavated these caverns,
and preserved them for the admiration of man.

Did the cavern which the settlers were now exploring extend to the
center of the island? For a quarter of an hour the boat had been
advancing, making detours, indicated to Pencroft by the engineer in
short sentences, when all at once,--

“More to the right!” he commanded.

The boat, altering its course, came up alongside the right wall. The
engineer wished to see if the wire still ran along the side.

The wire was there fastened to the rock.

“Forward!” said Harding.

And the two oars, plunging into the dark waters, urged the boat onwards.

On they went for another quarter of an hour, and a distance of
half-a-mile must have been cleared from the mouth of the cave, when
Harding’s voice was again heard.

“Stop!” said he.

The boat stopped, and the colonists perceived a bright light
illuminating the vast cavern, so deeply excavated in the bowels of the
island, of which nothing had ever led them to suspect the existence.

At a height of a hundred feet rose the vaulted roof, supported on basalt
shafts. Irregular arches, strange moldings, appeared on the columns
erected by nature in thousands from the first epochs of the formation of
the globe. The basalt pillars, fitted one into the other, measured
from forty to fifty feet in height, and the water, calm in spite of the
tumult outside, washed their base. The brilliant focus of light, pointed
out by the engineer, touched every point of rocks, and flooded the walls
with light.

By reflection the water reproduced the brilliant sparkles, so that the
boat appeared to be floating between two glittering zones. They could
not be mistaken in the nature of the irradiation thrown from the glowing
nucleus, whose clear rays were shattered by all the angles, all the
projections of the cavern. This light proceeded from an electric source,
and its white color betrayed its origin. It was the sun of this cave,
and it filled it entirely.

At a sign from Cyrus Harding the oars again plunged into the water,
causing a regular shower of gems, and the boat was urged forward towards
the light, which was now not more than half a cable’s length distant.

At this place the breadth of the sheet of water measured nearly 350
feet, and beyond the dazzling center could be seen an enormous basaltic
wall, blocking up any issue on that side. The cavern widened here
considerably, the sea forming a little lake. But the roof, the side
walls, the end cliff, all the prisms, all the peaks, were flooded with
the electric fluid, so that the brilliancy belonged to them, and as if
the light issued from them.

In the center of the lake a long cigar-shaped object floated on the
surface of the water, silent, motionless. The brilliancy which issued
from it escaped from its sides as from two kilns heated to a white heat.
This apparatus, similar in shape to an enormous whale, was about 250
feet long, and rose about ten or twelve above the water.

The boat slowly approached it, Cyrus Harding stood up in the bows. He
gazed, a prey to violent excitement. Then, all at once, seizing the
reporter’s arm,--

“It is he! It can only be he!” he cried, “he!--”

Then, falling back on the seat, he murmured a name which Gideon Spilett
alone could hear.

The reporter evidently knew this name, for it had a wonderful effect
upon him, and he answered in a hoarse voice,--

“He! an outlawed man!”

“He!” said Harding.

At the engineer’s command the boat approached this singular floating
apparatus. The boat touched the left side, from which escaped a ray of
light through a thick glass.

Harding and his companions mounted on the platform. An open hatchway was
there. All darted down the opening.

At the bottom of the ladder was a deck, lighted by electricity. At the
end of this deck was a door, which Harding opened.

A richly-ornamented room, quickly traversed by the colonists, was joined
to a library, over which a luminous ceiling shed a flood of light.

At the end of the library a large door, also shut, was opened by the
engineer.

An immense saloon--a sort of museum, in which were heaped up, with
all the treasures of the mineral world, works of art, marvels of
industry--appeared before the eyes of the colonists, who almost thought
themselves suddenly transported into a land of enchantment.

Stretched on a rich sofa they saw a man, who did not appear to notice
their presence.

Then Harding raised his voice, and to the extreme surprise of his
companions, he uttered these words,--

“Captain Nemo, you asked for us! We are here.--”



Chapter 16

At these words the reclining figure rose, and the electric light fell
upon his countenance; a magnificent head, the forehead high, the glance
commanding, beard white, hair abundant and falling over the shoulders.

His hand rested upon the cushion of the divan from which he had just
risen. He appeared perfectly calm. It was evident that his strength had
been gradually undermined by illness, but his voice seemed yet powerful,
as he said in English, and in a tone which evinced extreme surprise,--

“Sir, I have no name.”

“Nevertheless, I know you!” replied Cyrus Harding.

Captain Nemo fixed his penetrating gaze upon the engineer, as though he
were about to annihilate him.

Then, falling back amid the pillows of the divan,--

“After all, what matters now?” he murmured; “I am dying!”

Cyrus Harding drew near the captain, and Gideon Spilett took his
hand--it was of a feverish heat. Ayrton, Pencroft, Herbert, and Neb
stood respectfully apart in an angle of the magnificent saloon, whose
atmosphere was saturated with the electric fluid.

Meanwhile Captain Nemo withdrew his hand, and motioned the engineer and
the reporter to be seated.

All regarded him with profound emotion. Before them they beheld that
being whom they had styled the “genius of the island,” the powerful
protector whose intervention, in so many circumstances, had been so
efficacious, the benefactor to whom they owed such a debt of gratitude!
Their eyes beheld a man only, and a man at the point of death, where
Pencroft and Neb had expected to find an almost supernatural being!

But how happened it that Cyrus Harding had recognized Captain Nemo? why
had the latter so suddenly risen on hearing this name uttered, a name
which he had believed known to none?--

The captain had resumed his position on the divan, and leaning on his
arm, he regarded the engineer, seated near him.

“You know the name I formerly bore, sir?” he asked.

“I do,” answered Cyrus Harding, “and also that of this wonderful
submarine vessel--”

“The ‘Nautilus’?” said the captain, with a faint smile.

“The ‘Nautilus.’”

“But do you--do you know who I am?”

“I do.”

“It is nevertheless many years since I have held any communication with
the inhabited world; three long years have I passed in the depth of
the sea, the only place where I have found liberty! Who then can have
betrayed my secret?”

“A man who was bound to you by no tie, Captain Nemo, and who,
consequently, cannot be accused of treachery.”

“The Frenchman who was cast on board my vessel by chance sixteen years
since?”

“The same.”

“He and his two companions did not then perish in the maelstrom, in the
midst of which the ‘Nautilus’ was struggling?”

“They escaped, and a book has appeared under the title of ‘Twenty
Thousand Leagues Under the Sea,’ which contains your history.”

“The history of a few months only of my life!” interrupted the captain
impetuously.

“It is true,” answered Cyrus Harding, “but a few months of that strange
life have sufficed to make you known.”

“As a great criminal, doubtless!” said Captain Nemo, a haughty smile
curling his lips. “Yes, a rebel, perhaps an outlaw against humanity!”

The engineer was silent.

“Well, sir?”

“It is not for me to judge you, Captain Nemo,” answered Cyrus Harding,
“at any rate as regards your past life. I am, with the rest of the
world, ignorant of the motives which induced you to adopt this strange
mode of existence, and I cannot judge of effects without knowing their
causes; but what I do know is, that a beneficent hand has constantly
protected us since our arrival on Lincoln Island, that we all owe our
lives to a good, generous, and powerful being, and that this being so
powerful, good and generous, Captain Nemo, is yourself!”

“It is I,” answered the captain simply.

The engineer and the reporter rose. Their companions had drawn near, and
the gratitude with which their hearts were charged was about to express
itself in their gestures and words.

Captain Nemo stopped them by a sign, and in a voice which betrayed more
emotion than he doubtless intended to show.

“Wait till you have heard all,” he said.

And the captain, in a few concise sentences, ran over the events of his
life.

His narrative was short, yet he was obliged to summon up his whole
remaining energy to arrive at the end. He was evidently contending
against extreme weakness. Several times Cyrus Harding entreated him to
repose for a while, but he shook his head as a man to whom the morrow
may never come, and when the reporter offered his assistance,--

“It is useless,” he said; “my hours are numbered.”

Captain Nemo was an Indian, the Prince Dakkar, son of a rajah of the
then independent territory of Bundelkund. His father sent him, when ten
years of age, to Europe, in order that he might receive an education
in all respects complete, and in the hopes that by his talents and
knowledge he might one day take a leading part in raising his long
degraded and heathen country to a level with the nations of Europe.

From the age of ten years to that of thirty Prince Dakkar, endowed by
Nature with her richest gifts of intellect, accumulated knowledge of
every kind, and in science, literature, and art his researches were
extensive and profound.

He traveled over the whole of Europe. His rank and fortune caused him to
be everywhere sought after; but the pleasures of the world had for him
no attractions. Though young and possessed of every personal advantage,
he was ever grave--somber even--devoured by an unquenchable thirst for
knowledge, and cherishing in the recesses of his heart the hope that
he might become a great and powerful ruler of a free and enlightened
people.

Still, for long the love of science triumphed over all other feelings.
He became an artist deeply impressed by the marvels of art, a
philosopher to whom no one of the higher sciences was unknown, a
statesman versed in the policy of European courts. To the eyes of those
who observed him superficially he might have passed for one of those
cosmopolitans, curious of knowledge, but disdaining action; one of those
opulent travelers, haughty and cynical, who move incessantly from place
to place, and are of no country.

The history of Captain Nemo has, in fact, been published under the title
of “Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.” Here, therefore, will apply
the observation already made as to the adventures of Ayrton with regard
to the discrepancy of dates. Readers should therefore refer to the note
already published on this point.

This artist, this philosopher, this man was, however, still cherishing
the hope instilled into him from his earliest days.

Prince Dakkar returned to Bundelkund in the year 1849. He married a
noble Indian lady, who was imbued with an ambition not less ardent than
that by which he was inspired. Two children were born to them, whom they
tenderly loved. But domestic happiness did not prevent him from seeking
to carry out the object at which he aimed. He waited an opportunity. At
length, as he vainly fancied, it presented itself.

Instigated by princes equally ambitious and less sagacious and more
unscrupulous than he was, the people of India were persuaded that they
might successfully rise against their English rulers, who had brought
them out of a state of anarchy and constant warfare and misery, and had
established peace and prosperity in their country. Their ignorance and
gross superstition made them the facile tools of their designing chiefs.

In 1857 the great sepoy revolt broke out. Prince Dakkar, under the
belief that he should thereby have the opportunity of attaining the
object of his long-cherished ambition, was easily drawn into it. He
forthwith devoted his talents and wealth to the service of this cause.
He aided it in person; he fought in the front ranks; he risked his life
equally with the humblest of the wretched and misguided fanatics; he was
ten times wounded in twenty engagements, seeking death but finding it
not, but at length the sanguinary rebels were utterly defeated, and the
atrocious mutiny was brought to an end.

Never before had the British power in India been exposed to such danger,
and if, as they had hoped, the sepoys had received assistance from
without, the influence and supremacy in Asia of the United Kingdom would
have been a thing of the past.

The name of Prince Dakkar was at that time well known. He had fought
openly and without concealment. A price was set upon his head, but he
managed to escape from his pursuers.

Civilization never recedes; the law of necessity ever forces it onwards.
The sepoys were vanquished, and the land of the rajahs of old fell again
under the rule of England.

Prince Dakkar, unable to find that death he courted, returned to the
mountain fastnesses of Bundelkund. There, alone in the world, overcome
by disappointment at the destruction of all his vain hopes, a prey
to profound disgust for all human beings, filled with hatred of the
civilized world, he realized the wreck of his fortune, assembled some
score of his most faithful companions, and one day disappeared, leaving
no trace behind.

Where, then, did he seek that liberty denied him upon the inhabited
earth? Under the waves, in the depths of the ocean, where none could
follow.

The warrior became the man of science. Upon a deserted island of the
Pacific he established his dockyard, and there a submarine vessel was
constructed from his designs. By methods which will at some future
day be revealed he had rendered subservient the illimitable forces of
electricity, which, extracted from inexhaustible sources, was employed
for all the requirements of his floating equipage, as a moving,
lighting, and heating agent. The sea, with its countless treasures, its
myriads of fish, its numberless wrecks, its enormous mammalia, and not
only all that nature supplied, but also all that man had lost in its
depths, sufficed for every want of the prince and his crew--and thus was
his most ardent desire accomplished, never again to hold communication
with the earth. He named his submarine vessel the “Nautilus,” called
himself simply Captain Nemo, and disappeared beneath the seas.

During many years this strange being visited every ocean, from pole to
pole. Outcast of the inhabited earth in these unknown worlds he gathered
incalculable treasures. The millions lost in the Bay of Vigo, in 1702,
by the galleons of Spain, furnished him with a mine of inexhaustible
riches which he devoted always, anonymously, in favor of those nations
who fought for the independence of their country.

  (This refers to the resurrection of the Candiotes, who were, in
   fact, largely assisted by Captain Nemo.)

For long, however, he had held no communication with his
fellow-creatures, when, during the night of the 6th of November, 1866,
three men were cast on board his vessel. They were a French professor,
his servant, and a Canadian fisherman. These three men had been hurled
overboard by a collision which had taken place between the “Nautilus”
 and the United States frigate “Abraham Lincoln,” which had chased her.

Captain Nemo learned from this professor that the “Nautilus,” taken now
for a gigantic mammal of the whale species, now for a submarine vessel
carrying a crew of pirates, was sought for in every sea.

He might have returned these three men to the ocean, from whence chance
had brought them in contact with his mysterious existence. Instead of
doing this he kept them prisoners, and during seven months they were
enabled to behold all the wonders of a voyage of twenty thousand leagues
under the sea.

One day, the 22nd of June, 1867, these three men, who knew nothing of
the past history of Captain Nemo, succeeded in escaping in one of the
“Nautilus’s” boats. But as at this time the “Nautilus” was drawn into
the vortex of the maelstrom, off the coast of Norway, the captain
naturally believed that the fugitives, engulfed in that frightful
whirlpool, found their death at the bottom of the abyss. He was unaware
that the Frenchman and his two companions had been miraculously cast
on shore, that the fishermen of the Lofoten Islands had rendered
them assistance, and that the professor, on his return to France, had
published that work in which seven months of the strange and eventful
navigation of the “Nautilus” were narrated and exposed to the curiosity
of the public.

For a long time after this, Captain Nemo continued to live thus,
traversing every sea. But one by one his companions died, and found
their last resting-place in their cemetery of coral, in the bed of the
Pacific. At last Captain Nemo remained the solitary survivor of all
those who had taken refuge with him in the depths of the ocean.

He was now sixty years of age. Although alone, he succeeded in
navigating the “Nautilus” towards one of those submarine caverns which
had sometimes served him as a harbor.

One of these ports was hollowed beneath Lincoln Island, and at this
moment furnished an asylum to the “Nautilus.”

The captain had now remained there six years, navigating the ocean no
longer, but awaiting death, and that moment when he should rejoin his
former companions, when by chance he observed the descent of the balloon
which carried the prisoners of the Confederates. Clad in his diving
dress he was walking beneath the water at a few cables’ length from the
shore of the island, when the engineer had been thrown into the sea.
Moved by a feeling of compassion the captain saved Cyrus Harding.

His first impulse was to fly from the vicinity of the five castaways;
but his harbor refuge was closed, for in consequence of an elevation of
the basalt, produced by the influence of volcanic action, he could
no longer pass through the entrance of the vault. Though there was
sufficient depth of water to allow a light craft to pass the bar,
there was not enough for the “Nautilus,” whose draught of water was
considerable.

Captain Nemo was compelled, therefore, to remain. He observed these men
thrown without resources upon a desert island, but had no wish to be
himself discovered by them. By degrees he became interested in their
efforts when he saw them honest, energetic, and bound to each other by
the ties of friendship. As if despite his wishes, he penetrated all the
secrets of their existence. By means of the diving dress he could easily
reach the well in the interior of Granite House, and climbing by the
projections of rock to its upper orifice he heard the colonists as they
recounted the past, and studied the present and future. He learned from
them the tremendous conflict of America with America itself, for the
abolition of slavery. Yes, these men were worthy to reconcile Captain
Nemo with that humanity which they represented so nobly in the island.

Captain Nemo had saved Cyrus Harding. It was he also who had brought
back the dog to the Chimneys, who rescued Top from the waters of the
lake, who caused to fall at Flotsam Point the case containing so many
things useful to the colonists, who conveyed the canoe back into the
stream of the Mercy, who cast the cord from the top of Granite House at
the time of the attack by the baboons, who made known the presence
of Ayrton upon Tabor Island, by means of the document enclosed in the
bottle, who caused the explosion of the brig by the shock of a torpedo
placed at the bottom of the canal, who saved Herbert from certain death
by bringing the sulphate of quinine; and finally, it was he who had
killed the convicts with the electric balls, of which he possessed the
secret, and which he employed in the chase of submarine creatures. Thus
were explained so many apparently supernatural occurrences, and which
all proved the generosity and power of the captain.

Nevertheless, this noble misanthrope longed to benefit his proteges
still further. There yet remained much useful advice to give them, and,
his heart being softened by the approach of death, he invited, as we are
aware, the colonists of Granite House to visit the “Nautilus,” by means
of a wire which connected it with the corral. Possibly he would not
have done this had he been aware that Cyrus Harding was sufficiently
acquainted with his history to address him by the name of Nemo.

The captain concluded the narrative of his life. Cyrus Harding then
spoke; he recalled all the incidents which had exercised so beneficent
an influence upon the colony, and in the names of his companions and
himself thanked the generous being to whom they owed so much.

But Captain Nemo paid little attention; his mind appeared to be absorbed
by one idea, and without taking the proffered hand of the engineer,--

“Now, sir,” said he, “now that you know my history, your judgment!”

In saying this, the captain evidently alluded to an important incident
witnessed by the three strangers thrown on board his vessel, and which
the French professor had related in his work, causing a profound and
terrible sensation. Some days previous to the flight of the professor
and his two companions, the “Nautilus,” being chased by a frigate in the
north of the Atlantic had hurled herself as a ram upon this frigate, and
sunk her without mercy.

Cyrus Harding understood the captain’s allusion, and was silent.

“It was an enemy’s frigate,” exclaimed Captain Nemo, transformed for
an instant into the Prince Dakkar, “an enemy’s frigate! It was she who
attacked me--I was in a narrow and shallow bay--the frigate barred my
way--and I sank her!”

A few moments of silence ensued; then the captain demanded,--

“What think you of my life, gentlemen?”

Cyrus Harding extended his hand to the ci-devant prince and replied
gravely, “Sir, your error was in supposing that the past can be
resuscitated, and in contending against inevitable progress. It is one
of those errors which some admire, others blame; which God alone can
judge. He who is mistaken in an action which he sincerely believes to be
right may be an enemy, but retains our esteem. Your error is one that
we may admire, and your name has nothing to fear from the judgment of
history, which does not condemn heroic folly, but its results.”

The old man’s breast swelled with emotion, and raising his hand to
heaven,--

“Was I wrong, or in the right?” he murmured.

Cyrus Harding replied, “All great actions return to God, from whom they
are derived. Captain Nemo, we, whom you have succored, shall ever mourn
your loss.”

Herbert, who had drawn near the captain, fell on his knees and kissed
his hand.

A tear glistened in the eyes of the dying man. “My child,” he said, “may
God bless you!”



Chapter 17

Day had returned. No ray of light penetrated into the profundity of the
cavern. It being high-water, the entrance was closed by the sea. But the
artificial light, which escaped in long streams from the skylights of
the “Nautilus” was as vivid as before, and the sheet of water shone
around the floating vessel.

An extreme exhaustion now overcame Captain Nemo, who had fallen back
upon the divan. It was useless to contemplate removing him to Granite
House, for he had expressed his wish to remain in the midst of those
marvels of the “Nautilus” which millions could not have purchased, and
to wait there for that death which was swiftly approaching.

During a long interval of prostration, which rendered him almost
unconscious, Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett attentively observed
the condition of the dying man. It was apparent that his strength was
gradually diminishing. That frame, once so robust, was now but the
fragile tenement of a departing soul. All of life was concentrated in
the heart and head.

The engineer and reporter consulted in whispers. Was it possible to
render any aid to the dying man? Might his life, if not saved, be
prolonged for some days? He himself had said that no remedy could
avail, and he awaited with tranquillity that death which had for him no
terrors.

“We can do nothing,” said Gideon Spilett.

“But of what is he dying?” asked Pencroft.

“Life is simply fading out,” replied the reporter.

“Nevertheless,” said the sailor, “if we move him into the open air, and
the light of the sun, he might perhaps recover.”

“No, Pencroft,” answered the engineer, “it is useless to attempt it.
Besides, Captain Nemo would never consent to leave his vessel. He
has lived for a dozen years on board the ‘Nautilus,’ and on board the
‘Nautilus’ he desires to die.”

Without doubt Captain Nemo heard Cyrus Harding’s reply, for he raised
himself slightly, and in a voice more feeble, but always intelligible,--

“You are right, sir,” he said. “I shall die here--it is my wish; and
therefore I have a request to make of you.”

Cyrus Harding and his companions had drawn near the divan, and now
arranged the cushions in such a manner as to better support the dying
man.

They saw his eyes wander over all the marvels of this saloon, lighted
by the electric rays which fell from the arabesques of the luminous
ceiling. He surveyed, one after the other, the pictures hanging from
the splendid tapestries of the partitions, the chef-d’oeuvres of the
Italian, Flemish, French, and Spanish masters; the statues of marble and
bronze on their pedestals; the magnificent organ, leaning against the
after-partition; the aquarium, in which bloomed the most wonderful
productions of the sea--marine plants, zoophytes, chaplets of pearls
of inestimable value; and, finally, his eyes rested on this device,
inscribed over the pediment of the museum--the motto of the “Nautilus”--


“Mobilis in mobile.”


His glance seemed to rest fondly for the last time on these masterpieces
of art and of nature, to which he had limited his horizon during a
sojourn of so many years in the abysses of the seas.

Cyrus Harding respected the captain’s silence, and waited till he should
speak.

After some minutes, during which, doubtless, he passed in review his
whole life, Captain Nemo turned to the colonists and said,

“You consider yourselves, gentlemen, under some obligations to me?”

“Captain, believe us that we would give our lives to prolong yours.”

“Promise, then,” continued Captain Nemo, “to carry out my last wishes,
and I shall be repaid for all I have done for you.”

“We promise,” said Cyrus Harding.

And by this promise he bound both himself and his companions.

“Gentlemen,” resumed the captain, “to-morrow I shall be dead.”

Herbert was about to utter an exclamation, but a sign from the captain
arrested him.

“To-morrow I shall die, and I desire no other tomb than the ‘Nautilus.’
It is my grave! All my friends repose in the depths of the ocean; their
resting-place shall be mine.”

These words were received with profound silence.

“Pay attention to my wishes,” he continued. “The ‘Nautilus’ is
imprisoned in this grotto, the entrance of which is blocked up; but,
although egress is impossible, the vessel may at least sink in the
abyss, and there bury my remains.”

The colonists listened reverently to the words of the dying man.

“To-morrow, after my death, Mr. Harding,” continued the captain,
“yourself and companions will leave the ‘Nautilus,’ for all the
treasures it contains must perish with me. One token alone will remain
with you of Prince Dakkar, with whose history you are now acquainted.
That coffer yonder contains diamonds of the value of many millions,
most of them mementoes of the time when, husband and father, I thought
happiness possible for me, and a collection of pearls gathered by my
friends and myself in the depths of the ocean. Of this treasure at a
future day, you may make good use. In the hands of such men as yourself
and your comrades, Captain Harding, money will never be a source of
danger. From on high I shall still participate in your enterprises, and
I fear not but that they will prosper.”

After a few moments’ repose, necessitated by his extreme weakness,
Captain Nemo continued,--

“To-morrow you will take the coffer, you will leave the saloon, of which
you will close the door; then you will ascend on to the deck of the
‘Nautilus,’ and you will lower the mainhatch so as entirely to close the
vessel.”

“It shall be done, captain,” answered Cyrus Harding.

“Good. You will then embark in the canoe which brought you hither; but,
before leaving the ‘Nautilus,’ go to the stern and there open two large
stop-cocks which you will find upon the water-line. The water will
penetrate into the reservoirs, and the ‘Nautilus’ will gradually sink
beneath the water to repose at the bottom of the abyss.”

And comprehending a gesture of Cyrus Harding, the captain added,--

“Fear nothing! You will but bury a corpse!”

Neither Cyrus Harding nor his companions ventured to offer any
observation to Captain Nemo. He had expressed his last wishes, and they
had nothing to do but to conform to them.

“I have your promise, gentlemen?” added Captain Nemo.

“You have, captain,” replied the engineer.

The captain thanked the colonists by a sign, and requested them to leave
him for some hours. Gideon Spilett wished to remain near him, in the
event of a crisis coming on, but the dying man refused, saying, “I shall
live until to-morrow, sir.”

All left the saloon, passed through the library and the dining-room, and
arrived forward, in the machine-room where the electrical apparatus was
established, which supplied not only heat and light, but the mechanical
power of the “Nautilus.”

The “Nautilus” was a masterpiece containing masterpieces within itself,
and the engineer was struck with astonishment.

The colonists mounted the platform, which rose seven or eight feet above
the water. There they beheld a thick glass lenticular covering, which
protected a kind of large eye, from which flashed forth light. Behind
this eye was apparently a cabin containing the wheels of the rudder, and
in which was stationed the helmsman, when he navigated the “Nautilus”
 over the bed of the ocean, which the electric rays would evidently light
up to a considerable distance.

Cyrus Harding and his companions remained for a time silent, for they
were vividly impressed by what they had just seen and heard, and their
hearts were deeply touched by the thought that he whose arm had so often
aided them, the protector whom they had known but a few hours, was at
the point of death.

Whatever might be the judgment pronounced by posterity upon the events
of this, so to speak, extra-human existence, the character of Prince
Dakkar would ever remain as one of those whose memory time can never
efface.

“What a man!” said Pencroft. “Is it possible that he can have lived at
the bottom of the sea? And it seems to me that perhaps he has not found
peace there any more than elsewhere!”

“The ‘Nautilus,’” observed Ayrton, “might have enabled us to leave
Lincoln Island and reach some inhabited country.”

“Good Heavens!” exclaimed Pencroft, “I for one would never risk myself
in such a craft. To sail on the seas, good, but under the seas, never!”

“I believe, Pencroft,” answered the reporter, “that the navigation of a
submarine vessel such as the ‘Nautilus’ ought to be very easy, and that
we should soon become accustomed to it. There would be no storms, no
lee-shore to fear. At some feet beneath the surface the waters of the
ocean are as calm as those of a lake.”

“That may be,” replied the sailor, “but I prefer a gale of wind on
board a well-found craft. A vessel is built to sail on the sea, and not
beneath it.”

“My friends,” said the engineer, “it is useless, at any rate as regards
the ‘Nautilus,’ to discuss the question of submarine vessels. The
‘Nautilus’ is not ours, and we have not the right to dispose of it.
Moreover, we could in no case avail ourselves of it. Independently of
the fact that it would be impossible to get it out of this cavern, whose
entrance is now closed by the uprising of the basaltic rocks, Captain
Nemo’s wish is that it shall be buried with him. His wish is our law,
and we will fulfil it.”

After a somewhat prolonged conversation, Cyrus Harding and his
companions again descended to the interior of the “Nautilus.” There they
took some refreshment and returned to the saloon.

Captain Nemo had somewhat rallied from the prostration which had
overcome him, and his eyes shone with their wonted fire. A faint smile
even curled his lips.

The colonists drew around him.

“Gentlemen,” said the captain, “you are brave and honest men. You
have devoted yourselves to the common weal. Often have I observed
your conduct. I have esteemed you--I esteem you still! Your hand, Mr.
Harding.”

Cyrus Harding gave his hand to the captain, who clasped it
affectionately.

“It is well!” he murmured.

He resumed,--

“But enough of myself. I have to speak concerning yourselves, and this
Lincoln Island, upon which you have taken refuge. You now desire to
leave it?”

“To return, captain!” answered Pencroft quickly.

“To return, Pencroft?” said the captain, with a smile. “I know, it is
true, your love for this island. You have helped to make it what it now
is, and it seems to you a paradise!”

“Our project, captain,” interposed Cyrus Harding, “is to annex it to the
United States, and to establish for our shipping a port so fortunately
situated in this part of the Pacific.”

“Your thoughts are with your country, gentlemen,” continued the captain;
“your toils are for her prosperity and glory. You are right. One’s
native land!--there should one live! there die! And I die far from all I
loved!”

“You have some last wish to transmit,” said the engineer with emotion,
“some souvenir to send to those friends you have left in the mountains
of India?”

“No, Captain Harding; no friends remain to me! I am the last of my race,
and to all whom I have known I have long been as are the dead.--But
to return to yourselves. Solitude, isolation, are painful things, and
beyond human endurance. I die of having thought it possible to live
alone! You should, therefore, dare all in the attempt to leave Lincoln
Island, and see once more the land of your birth. I am aware that those
wretches have destroyed the vessel you have built.”

“We propose to construct a vessel,” said Gideon Spilett, “sufficiently
large to convey us to the nearest land; but if we should succeed, sooner
or later we shall return to Lincoln Island. We are attached to it by too
many recollections ever to forget it.”

“It is here that we have known Captain Nemo,” said Cyrus Harding.

“It is here only that we can make our home!” added Herbert.

“And here shall I sleep the sleep of eternity, if--” replied the
captain.

He paused for a moment, and, instead of completing the sentence, said
simply,--

“Mr. Harding, I wish to speak with you--alone!”

The engineer’s companions, respecting the wish, retired.

Cyrus Harding remained but a few minutes alone with Captain Nemo, and
soon recalled his companions; but he said nothing to them of the private
matters which the dying man had confided to him.

Gideon Spilett now watched the captain with extreme care. It was evident
that he was no longer sustained by his moral energy, which had lost the
power of reaction against his physical weakness.

The day closed without change. The colonists did not quit the “Nautilus”
 for a moment. Night arrived, although it was impossible to distinguish
it from day in the cavern.

Captain Nemo suffered no pain, but he was visibly sinking. His noble
features, paled by the approach of death, were perfectly calm. Inaudible
words escaped at intervals from his lips, bearing upon various incidents
of his checkered career. Life was evidently ebbing slowly and his
extremities were already cold.

Once or twice more he spoke to the colonists who stood around him, and
smiled on them with that last smile which continues after death.

At length, shortly after midnight, Captain Nemo by a supreme effort
succeeded in folding his arms across his breast, as if wishing in that
attitude to compose himself for death.

By one o’clock his glance alone showed signs of life. A dying light
gleamed in those eyes once so brilliant. Then, murmuring the words, “God
and my country!” he quietly expired.

Cyrus Harding, bending low closed the eyes of him who had once been the
Prince Dakkar, and was now not even Captain Nemo.

Herbert and Pencroft sobbed aloud. Tears fell from Ayrton’s eyes. Neb
was on his knees by the reporter’s side, motionless as a statue.

Then Cyrus Harding, extending his hand over the forehead of the dead,
said solemnly, “May his soul be with God!” Turning to his friends, he
added, “Let us pray for him whom we have lost!”


Some hours later the colonists fulfilled the promise made to the captain
by carrying out his dying wishes.

Cyrus Harding and his companions quitted the “Nautilus,” taking with
them the only memento left them by their benefactor, the coffer which
contained wealth amounting to millions.

The marvelous saloon, still flooded with light, had been carefully
closed. The iron door leading on deck was then securely fastened in
such a manner as to prevent even a drop of water from penetrating to the
interior of the “Nautilus.”

The colonists then descended into the canoe, which was moored to the
side of the submarine vessel.

The canoe was now brought around to the stern. There, at the water-line,
were two large stop-cocks communicating with the reservoirs employed in
the submersion of the vessel.

The stop-cocks were opened, the reservoirs filled, and the “Nautilus,”
 slowly sinking, disappeared beneath the surface of the lake.

But the colonists were yet able to follow its descent through the waves.
The powerful light it gave forth lighted up the translucent water, while
the cavern became gradually obscure. At length this vast effusion of
electric light faded away, and soon after the “Nautilus,” now the tomb
of Captain Nemo, reposed in its ocean bed.



Chapter 18


At break of day the colonists regained in silence the entrance of the
cavern, to which they gave the name of “Dakkar Grotto,” in memory of
Captain Nemo. It was now low-water, and they passed without difficulty
under the arcade, washed on the right by the sea.

The canoe was left here, carefully protected from the waves. As
additional precaution, Pencroft, Neb, and Ayrton drew it up on a little
beach which bordered one of the sides of the grotto, in a spot where it
could run no risk of harm.

The storm had ceased during the night. The last low mutterings of the
thunder died away in the west. Rain fell no longer, but the sky was yet
obscured by clouds. On the whole, this month of October, the first of
the southern spring, was not ushered in by satisfactory tokens, and the
wind had a tendency to shift from one point of the compass to another,
which rendered it impossible to count upon settled weather.

Cyrus Harding and his companions, on leaving Dakkar Grotto, had taken
the road to the corral. On their way Neb and Herbert were careful to
preserve the wire which had been laid down by the captain between the
corral and the grotto, and which might at a future time be of service.

The colonists spoke but little on the road. The various incidents of the
night of October 15th had left a profound impression on their minds. The
unknown being whose influence had so effectually protected them, the
man whom their imagination had endowed with supernatural powers, Captain
Nemo, was no more. His “Nautilus” and he were buried in the depths of
the abyss. To each one of them their existence seemed even more isolated
than before. They had been accustomed to count upon the intervention of
that power which existed no longer, and Gideon Spilett, and even Cyrus
Harding, could not escape this impression. Thus they maintained a
profound silence during their journey to the corral.

Towards nine in the morning the colonists arrived at Granite House.

It had been agreed that the construction of the vessel should be
actively pushed forward, and Cyrus Harding more than ever devoted his
time and labor to this object. It was impossible to divine what future
lay before them. Evidently the advantage to the colonists would be great
of having at their disposal a substantial vessel, capable of keeping the
sea even in heavy weather, and large enough to attempt, in case of
need, a voyage of some duration. Even if, when their vessel should be
completed, the colonists should not resolve to leave Lincoln Island as
yet, in order to gain either one of the Polynesian Archipelagoes of the
Pacific or the shores of New Zealand, they might at least, sooner or
later, proceed to Tabor Island, to leave there the notice relating to
Ayrton. This was a precaution rendered indispensable by the possibility
of the Scotch yacht reappearing in those seas, and it was of the highest
importance that nothing should be neglected on this point.

The works were then resumed. Cyrus Harding, Pencroft, and Ayrton,
assisted by Neb, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert, except when unavoidably
called off by other necessary occupations, worked without cessation. It
was important that the new vessel should be ready in five months--that
is to say, by the beginning of March--if they wished to visit Tabor
Island before the equinoctial gales rendered the voyage impracticable.
Therefore the carpenters lost not a moment. Moreover, it was unnecessary
to manufacture rigging, that of the “Speedy” having been saved entire,
so that the hull only of the vessel needed to be constructed.

The end of the year 1868 found them occupied by these important labors,
to the exclusion of almost all others. At the expiration of two months
and a half the ribs had been set up and the first planks adjusted. It
was already evident that the plans made by Cyrus Harding were admirable,
and that the vessel would behave well at sea.

Pencroft brought to the task a devouring energy, and would even grumble
when one or the other abandoned the carpenter’s axe for the gun of the
hunter. It was nevertheless necessary to keep up the stores of Granite
House, in view of the approaching winter. But this did not satisfy
Pencroft. The brave, honest sailor was not content when the workmen were
not at the dockyard. When this happened he grumbled vigorously, and, by
way of venting his feelings, did the work of six men.

The weather was very unfavorable during the whole of the summer season.
For some days the heat was overpowering, and the atmosphere, saturated
with electricity, was only cleared by violent storms. It was rarely that
the distant growling of the thunder could not be heard, like a low but
incessant murmur, such as is produced in the equatorial regions of the
globe.

The 1st of January, 1869, was signalized by a storm of extreme violence,
and the thunder burst several times over the island. Large trees were
struck by the electric fluid and shattered, and among others one of
those gigantic nettle-trees which had shaded the poultry-yard at the
southern extremity of the lake. Had this meteor any relation to the
phenomena going on in the bowels of the earth? Was there any connection
between the commotion of the atmosphere and that of the interior of the
earth? Cyrus Harding was inclined to think that such was the case, for
the development of these storms was attended by the renewal of volcanic
symptoms.

It was on the 3rd of January that Herbert, having ascended at daybreak
to the plateau of Prospect Heights to harness one of the onagers,
perceived an enormous hat-shaped cloud rolling from the summit of the
volcano.

Herbert immediately apprised the colonists, who at once joined him in
watching the summit of Mount Franklin.

“Ah!” exclaimed Pencroft, “those are not vapors this time! It seems to
me that the giant is not content with breathing; he must smoke!”

This figure of speech employed by the sailor exactly expressed the
changes going on at the mouth of the volcano. Already for three months
had the crater emitted vapors more or less dense, but which were as yet
produced only by an internal ebullition of mineral substances. But
now the vapors were replaced by a thick smoke, rising in the form of a
grayish column, more than three hundred feet in width at its base, and
which spread like an immense mushroom to a height of from seven to eight
hundred feet above the summit of the mountain.

“The fire is in the chimney,” observed Gideon Spilett.

“And we can’t put it out!” replied Herbert.

“The volcano ought to be swept,” observed Neb, who spoke as if perfectly
serious.

“Well said, Neb!” cried Pencroft, with a shout of laughter; “and you’ll
undertake the job, no doubt?”

Cyrus Harding attentively observed the dense smoke emitted by Mount
Franklin, and even listened, as if expecting to hear some distant
muttering. Then, turning towards his companions, from whom he had gone
somewhat apart, he said,--

“The truth is, my friends, we must not conceal from ourselves that an
important change is going forward. The volcanic substances are no longer
in a state of ebullition, they have caught fire, and we are undoubtedly
menaced by an approaching eruption.”

“Well, captain,” said Pencroft, “we shall witness the eruption; and if
it is a good one, we’ll applaud it. I don’t see that we need concern
ourselves further about the matter.”

“It may be so,” replied Cyrus Harding, “for the ancient track of
the lava is still open; and thanks to this, the crater has hitherto
overflowed towards the north. And yet--”

“And yet, as we can derive no advantage from an eruption, it might be
better it should not take place,” said the reporter.

“Who knows?” answered the sailor. “Perhaps there may be some valuable
substance in this volcano, which it will spout forth, and which we may
turn to good account!”

Cyrus Harding shook his head with the air of a man who augured no good
from the phenomenon whose development had been so sudden. He did not
regard so lightly as Pencroft the results of an eruption. If the lava,
in consequence of the position of the crater, did not directly menace
the wooded and cultivated parts of the island, other complications might
present themselves. In fact, eruptions are not unfrequently accompanied
by earthquakes; and an island of the nature of Lincoln Island, formed of
substances so varied, basalt on one side, granite on the other, lava on
the north, rich soil on the south, substances which consequently could
not be firmly attached to each other, would be exposed to the risk
of disintegration. Although, therefore, the spreading of the volcanic
matter might not constitute a serious danger, any movement of the
terrestrial structure which should shake the island might entail the
gravest consequences.

“It seems to me,” said Ayrton, who had reclined so as to place his ear
to the ground, “it seems to me that I can hear a dull, rumbling sound,
like that of a wagon loaded with bars of iron.”

The colonists listened with the greatest attention, and were convinced
that Ayrton was not mistaken. The rumbling was mingled with a
subterranean roar, which formed a sort of rinforzando, and died slowly
away, as if some violent storm had passed through the profundities of
the globe. But no explosion properly so termed, could be heard. It might
therefore be concluded that the vapors and smoke found a free passage
through the central shaft; and that the safety-valve being sufficiently
large, no convulsion would be produced, no explosion was to be
apprehended.

“Well, then!” said Pencroft, “are we not going back to work? Let Mount
Franklin smoke, groan, bellow, or spout forth fire and flame as much as
it pleases, that is no reason why we should be idle! Come, Ayrton, Neb,
Herbert, Captain Harding, Mr. Spilett, every one of us must turn to at
our work to-day! We are going to place the keelson, and a dozen pair
of hands would not be too many. Before two months I want our new
‘Bonadventure’--for we shall keep the old name, shall we not?--to float
on the waters of Port Balloon! Therefore there is not an hour to lose!”

All the colonists, their services thus requisitioned by Pencroft,
descended to the dockyard, and proceeded to place the keelson, a thick
mass of wood which forms the lower portion of a ship and unites firmly
the timbers of the hull. It was an arduous undertaking, in which all
took part.

They continued their labors during the whole of this day, the 3rd of
January, without thinking further of the volcano, which could not,
besides, be seen from the shore of Granite House. But once or twice,
large shadows, veiling the sun, which described its diurnal arc through
an extremely clear sky, indicated that a thick cloud of smoke passed
between its disc and the island. The wind, blowing on the shore, carried
all these vapors to the westward. Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett
remarked these somber appearances, and from time to time discussed
the evident progress of the volcanic phenomena, but their work went
on without interruption. It was, besides, of the first importance from
every point of view, that the vessel should be finished with the least
possible delay. In presence of the eventualities which might arise,
the safety of the colonists would be to a great extent secured by their
ship. Who could tell that it might not prove some day their only refuge?

In the evening, after supper, Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert
again ascended the plateau of Prospect Heights. It was already dark, and
the obscurity would permit them to ascertain if flames or incandescent
matter thrown up by the volcano were mingled with the vapor and smoke
accumulated at the mouth of the crater.

“The crater is on fire!” said Herbert, who, more active than his
companion, first reached the plateau.

Mount Franklin, distant about six miles, now appeared like a gigantic
torch, around the summit of which turned fuliginous flames. So much
smoke, and possibly scoriae and cinders were mingled with them, that
their light gleamed but faintly amid the gloom of the night. But a kind
of lurid brilliancy spread over the island, against which stood out
confusedly the wooded masses of the heights. Immense whirlwinds of vapor
obscured the sky, through which glimmered a few stars.

“The change is rapid!” said the engineer.

“That is not surprising,” answered the reporter. “The reawakening of the
volcano already dates back some time. You may remember, Cyrus, that
the first vapors appeared about the time we searched the sides of the
mountain to discover Captain Nemo’s retreat. It was, if I mistake not,
about the 15th of October.”

“Yes,” replied Herbert, “two months and a half ago!”

“The subterranean fires have therefore been smoldering for ten weeks,”
 resumed Gideon Spilett, “and it is not to be wondered at that they now
break out with such violence!”

“Do not you feel a certain vibration of the soil?” asked Cyrus Harding.

“Yes,” replied Gideon Spilett, “but there is a great difference between
that and an earthquake.”

“I do not affirm that we are menaced with an earthquake,” answered Cyrus
Harding, “may God preserve us from that! No; these vibrations are due to
the effervescence of the central fire. The crust of the earth is
simply the shell of a boiler, and you know that such a shell, under the
pressure of steam, vibrates like a sonorous plate. It is this effect
which is being produced at this moment.”

“What magnificent flames!” exclaimed Herbert.

At this instant a kind of bouquet of flames shot forth from the crater,
the brilliancy of which was visible even through the vapors. Thousands
of luminous sheets and barbed tongues of fire were cast in various
directions. Some, extending beyond the dome of smoke, dissipated
it, leaving behind an incandescent powder. This was accompanied
by successive explosions, resembling the discharge of a battery of
machine-guns.

Cyrus Harding, the reporter, and Herbert, after spending an hour on the
plateau of Prospect Heights, again descended to the beach, and returned
to Granite House. The engineer was thoughtful and preoccupied, so much
so, indeed, that Gideon Spilett inquired if he apprehended any immediate
danger, of which the eruption might directly or indirectly be the cause.

“Yes, and no,” answered Cyrus Harding.

“Nevertheless,” continued the reporter, “would not the greatest
misfortune which could happen to us be an earthquake which would
overturn the island? Now, I do not suppose that this is to be feared,
since the vapors and lava have found a free outlet.”

“True,” replied Cyrus Harding, “and I do not fear an earthquake in the
sense in which the term is commonly applied to convulsions of the soil
provoked by the expansion of subterranean gases. But other causes may
produce great disasters.”

“How so, my dear Cyrus?’

“I am not certain. I must consider. I must visit the mountain. In a few
days I shall learn more on this point.”

Gideon Spilett said no more, and soon, in spite of the explosions of
the volcano, whose intensity increased, and which were repeated by the
echoes of the island, the inhabitants of Granite House were sleeping
soundly.

Three days passed by--the 4th, 5th, and 6th of January. The construction
of the vessel was diligently continued, and without offering further
explanations the engineer pushed forward the work with all his energy.
Mount Franklin was now hooded by a somber cloud of sinister aspect, and,
amid the flames, vomiting forth incandescent rocks, some of which fell
back into the crater itself. This caused Pencroft, who would only look
at the matter in the light of a joke, to exclaim,--

“Ah! the giant is playing at cup and ball; he is a conjurer.”

In fact, the substances thrown up fell back again in to the abyss, and
it did not seem that the lava, though swollen by the internal pressure,
had yet risen to the orifice of the crater. At any rate, the opening on
the northeast, which was partly visible, poured out no torrent upon the
northern slope of the mountain.

Nevertheless, however pressing was the construction of the vessel, other
duties demanded the presence of the colonists on various portions of the
island. Before everything it was necessary to go to the corral, where
the flocks of musmons and goats were enclosed, and replenish the
provision of forage for those animals. It was accordingly arranged that
Ayrton should proceed thither the next day, the 7th of January; and as
he was sufficient for the task, to which he was accustomed, Pencroft and
the rest were somewhat surprised on hearing the engineer say to Ayrton--

“As you are going to-morrow to the corral I will accompany you.”

“But, Captain Harding,” exclaimed the sailor, “our working days will not
be many, and if you go also we shall be two pair of hands short!”

“We shall return to-morrow,” replied Cyrus Harding, “but it is necessary
that I should go to the corral. I must learn how the eruption is
progressing.”

“The eruption! always the eruption!” answered Pencroft, with an air of
discontent. “An important thing, truly, this eruption! I trouble myself
very little about it.”

Whatever might be the sailor’s opinion, the expedition projected by the
engineer was settled for the next day. Herbert wished to accompany Cyrus
Harding, but he would not vex Pencroft by his absence.

The next day, at dawn, Cyrus Harding and Ayrton, mounting the cart drawn
by two onagers, took the road to the corral and set off at a round trot.

Above the forest were passing large clouds, to which the crater of Mount
Franklin incessantly added fuliginous matter. These clouds, which rolled
heavily in the air, were evidently composed of heterogeneous substances.
It was not alone from the volcano that they derived their strange
opacity and weight. Scoriae, in a state of dust, like powdered
pumice-stone, and grayish ashes as small as the finest feculae, were
held in suspension in the midst of their thick folds. These ashes are so
fine that they have been observed in the air for whole months. After
the eruption of 1783 in Iceland for upwards of a year the atmosphere was
thus charged with volcanic dust through which the rays of the sun were
only with difficulty discernible.

But more often this pulverized matter falls, and this happened on the
present occasion. Cyrus Harding and Ayrton had scarcely reached the
corral when a sort of black snow like fine gunpowder fell, and instantly
changed the appearance of the soil. Trees, meadows, all disappeared
beneath a covering several inches in depth. But, very fortunately,
the wind blew from the northeast, and the greater part of the cloud
dissolved itself over the sea.

“This is very singular, Captain Harding,” said Ayrton.

“It is very serious,” replied the engineer. “This powdered pumice-stone,
all this mineral dust, proves how grave is the convulsion going forward
in the lower depths of the volcano.”

“But can nothing be done?”

“Nothing, except to note the progress of the phenomenon. Do you,
therefore, Ayrton, occupy yourself with the necessary work at the
corral. In the meantime I will ascend just beyond the source of Red
Creek and examine the condition of the mountain upon its northern
aspect. Then--”

“Well, Captain Harding?”

“Then we will pay a visit to Dakkar Grotto. I wish to inspect it. At any
rate I will come back for you in two hours.”

Ayrton then proceeded to enter the corral, and, while awaiting the
engineer’s return, busied himself with the musmons and goats which
seemed to feel a certain uneasiness in presence of these first signs of
an eruption.

Meanwhile Cyrus Harding ascended the crest of the eastern spur, passed
Red Creek, and arrived at the spot where he and his companions had
discovered a sulphurous spring at the time of their first exploration.

How changed was everything! Instead of a single column of smoke he
counted thirteen, forced through the soil as if violently propelled by
some piston. It was evident that the crust of the earth was subjected
in this part of the globe to a frightful pressure. The atmosphere was
saturated with gases and carbonic acid, mingled with aqueous vapors.
Cyrus Harding felt the volcanic tufa with which the plain was strewn,
and which was but pulverized cinders hardened into solid blocks by time,
tremble beneath him, but he could discover no traces of fresh lava.

The engineer became more assured of this when he observed all the
northern part of Mount Franklin. Pillars of smoke and flame escaped from
the crater; a hail of scoriae fell on the ground; but no current of
lava burst from the mouth of the volcano, which proved that the volcanic
matter had not yet attained the level of the superior orifice of the
central shaft.

“But I would prefer that it were so,” said Cyrus Harding to himself. “At
any rate, I should then know that the lava had followed its accustomed
track. Who can say that it may not take a new course? But the danger
does not consist in that! Captain Nemo foresaw it clearly! No, the
danger does not lie there!”

Cyrus Harding advanced towards the enormous causeway whose prolongation
enclosed the narrow Shark Gulf. He could now sufficiently examine on
this side the ancient channels of the lava. There was no doubt in his
mind that the most recent eruption had occurred at a far-distant epoch.

He then returned by the same way, listening attentively to the
subterranean mutterings which rolled like long-continued thunder,
interrupted by deafening explosions. At nine in the morning he reached
the corral.

Ayrton awaited him.

“The animals are cared for, Captain Harding,” said Ayrton.

“Good, Ayrton.”

“They seem uneasy, Captain Harding.”

“Yes, instinct speaks through them, and instinct is never deceived.”

“Are you ready?”

“Take a lamp, Ayrton,” answered the engineer; “we will start at once.”

Ayrton did as desired. The onagers, unharnessed, roamed in the corral.
The gate was secured on the outside, and Cyrus Harding, preceding
Ayrton, took the narrow path which led westward to the shore.

The soil they walked upon was choked with the pulverized matter fallen
from the cloud. No quadruped appeared in the woods. Even the birds had
fled. Sometimes a passing breeze raised the covering of ashes, and the
two colonists, enveloped in a whirlwind of dust, lost sight of each
other. They were then careful to cover their eyes and mouths with
handkerchiefs, for they ran the risk of being blinded and suffocated.

It was impossible for Cyrus Harding and Ayrton, with these impediments,
to make rapid progress. Moreover, the atmosphere was close, as if the
oxygen had been partly burned up, and had become unfit for respiration.
At every hundred paces they were obliged to stop to take breath. It was
therefore past ten o’clock when the engineer and his companion reached
the crest of the enormous mass of rocks of basalt and porphyry which
composed the northwest coast of the island.

Ayrton and Cyrus Harding commenced the descent of this abrupt declivity,
following almost step for step the difficult path which, during that
stormy night, had led them to Dakkar Grotto. In open day the descent was
less perilous, and, besides, the bed of ashes which covered the polished
surface of the rock enabled them to make their footing more secure.

The ridge at the end of the shore, about forty feet in height, was soon
reached. Cyrus Harding recollected that this elevation gradually sloped
towards the level of the sea. Although the tide was at present low, no
beach could be seen, and the waves, thickened by the volcanic dust, beat
upon the basaltic rocks.

Cyrus Harding and Ayrton found without difficulty the entrance to Dakkar
Grotto, and paused for a moment at the last rock before it.

“The iron boat should be there,” said the engineer.

“It is here, Captain Harding,” replied Ayrton, drawing towards him the
fragile craft, which was protected by the arch of the vault.

“On board, Ayrton!”

The two colonists stepped into the boat. A slight undulation of the
waves carried it farther under the low arch of the crypt, and there
Ayrton, with the aid of flint and steel, lighted the lamp. He then took
the oars, and the lamp having been placed in the bow of the boat, so
that its rays fell before them, Cyrus Harding took the helm and steered
through the shades of the grotto.

The “Nautilus” was there no longer to illuminate the cavern with its
electric light. Possibly it might not yet be extinguished, but no ray
escaped from the depths of the abyss in which reposed all that was
mortal of Captain Nemo.

The light afforded by the lamp, although feeble, nevertheless enabled
the engineer to advance slowly, following the wall of the cavern. A
deathlike silence reigned under the vaulted roof, or at least in the
anterior portion, for soon Cyrus Harding distinctly heard the rumbling
which proceeded from the bowels of the mountain.

“That comes from the volcano,” he said.

Besides these sounds, the presence of chemical combinations was soon
betrayed by their powerful odor, and the engineer and his companion were
almost suffocated by sulphurous vapors.

“This is what Captain Nemo feared,” murmured Cyrus Harding, changing
countenance. “We must go to the end, notwithstanding.”

“Forward!” replied Ayrton, bending to his oars and directing the boat
towards the head of the cavern.

Twenty-five minutes after entering the mouth of the grotto the boat
reached the extreme end.

Cyrus Harding then, standing up, cast the light of the lamp upon the
walls of the cavern which separated it from the central shaft of the
volcano. What was the thickness of this wall? It might be ten feet or a
hundred feet--it was impossible to say. But the subterranean sounds were
too perceptible to allow of the supposition that it was of any great
thickness.

The engineer, after having explored the wall at a certain height
horizontally, fastened the lamp to the end of an oar, and again surveyed
the basaltic wall at a greater elevation.

There, through scarcely visible clefts and joinings, escaped a pungent
vapor, which infected the atmosphere of the cavern. The wall was broken
by large cracks, some of which extended to within two or three feet of
the water’s edge.

Cyrus Harding thought for a brief space. Then he said in a low voice,--

“Yes! the captain was right! The danger lies there, and a terrible
danger!”

Ayrton said not a word, but, upon a sign from Cyrus Harding, resumed the
oars, and half an hour later the engineer and he reached the entrance of
Dakkar Grotto.



Chapter 19

The next day, the 8th day of January, after a day and night passed
at the corral, where they left all in order, Cyrus Harding and Ayrton
arrived at Granite House.

The engineer immediately called his companions together, and informed
them of the imminent danger which threatened Lincoln Island, and from
which no human power could deliver them.

“My friends,” he said, and his voice betrayed the depth of his emotion,
“our island is not among those which will endure while this earth
endures. It is doomed to more or less speedy destruction, the cause of
which it bears within itself, and from which nothing can save it.”

The colonists looked at each other, then at the engineer. They did not
clearly comprehend him.

“Explain yourself, Cyrus!” said Gideon Spilett.

“I will do so,” replied Cyrus Harding, “or rather I will simply
afford you the explanation which, during our few minutes of private
conversation, was given me by Captain Nemo.”

“Captain Nemo!” exclaimed the colonists.

“Yes, and it was the last service he desired to render us before his
death!”

“The last service!” exclaimed Pencroft, “the last service! You will see
that though he is dead he will render us others yet!”

“But what did the captain say?” inquired the reporter.

“I will tell you, my friends,” said the engineer. “Lincoln Island does
not resemble the other islands of the Pacific, and a fact of which
Captain Nemo has made me cognizant must sooner or later bring about the
subversion of its foundation.”

“Nonsense! Lincoln Island, it can’t be!” cried Pencroft, who, in spite
of the respect he felt for Cyrus Harding, could not prevent a gesture of
incredulity.

“Listen, Pencroft,” resumed the engineer, “I will tell you what Captain
Nemo communicated to me, and which I myself confirmed yesterday, during
the exploration of Dakkar Grotto.

“This cavern stretches under the island as far as the volcano, and is
only separated from its central shaft by the wall which terminates it.
Now, this wall is seamed with fissures and clefts which already allow
the sulphurous gases generated in the interior of the volcano to
escape.”

“Well?” said Pencroft, his brow suddenly contracting.

“Well, then, I saw that these fissures widen under the internal pressure
from within, that the wall of basalt is gradually giving way and that
after a longer or shorter period it will afford a passage to the waters
of the lake which fill the cavern.”

“Good!” replied Pencroft, with an attempt at pleasantry. “The sea will
extinguish the volcano, and there will be an end of the matter!”

“Not so!” said Cyrus Harding, “should a day arrive when the sea, rushing
through the wall of the cavern, penetrates by the central shaft into the
interior of the island to the boiling lava, Lincoln Island will that day
be blown into the air--just as would happen to the island of Sicily were
the Mediterranean to precipitate itself into Mount Etna.”

The colonists made no answer to these significant words of the engineer.
They now understood the danger by which they were menaced.

It may be added that Cyrus Harding had in no way exaggerated the danger
to be apprehended. Many persons have formed an idea that it would be
possible to extinguish volcanoes, which are almost always situated on
the shores of a sea or lake, by opening a passage for the admission of
the water. But they are not aware that this would be to incur the risk
of blowing up a portion of the globe, like a boiler whose steam is
suddenly expanded by intense heat. The water, rushing into a cavity
whose temperature might be estimated at thousands of degrees, would
be converted into steam with a sudden energy which no enclosure could
resist.

It was not therefore doubtful that the island, menaced by a frightful
and approaching convulsion, would endure only so long as the wall
of Dakkar Grotto itself should endure. It was not even a question of
months, nor of weeks, but of days; it might be of hours.

The first sentiment which the colonists felt was that of profound
sorrow. They thought not so much of the peril which menaced themselves
personally, but of the destruction of the island which had sheltered
them, which they had cultivated, which they loved so well, and had hoped
to render so flourishing. So much effort ineffectually expended, so much
labor lost.

Pencroft could not prevent a large tear from rolling down his cheek, nor
did he attempt to conceal it.

Some further conversation now took place. The chances yet in favor of
the colonists were discussed; but finally it was agreed that there was
not an hour to be lost, that the building and fitting of the vessel
should be pushed forward with their utmost energy, and that this was the
sole chance of safety for the inhabitants of Lincoln Island.

All hands, therefore, set to work on the vessel. What could it avail
to sow, to reap, to hunt, to increase the stores of Granite House?
The contents of the storehouse and outbuildings contained more than
sufficient to provide the ship for a voyage, however long might be its
duration. But it was imperative that the ship should be ready to receive
them before the inevitable catastrophe should arrive.

Their labors were now carried on with feverish ardor. By the 23rd of
January the vessel was half-decked over. Up to this time no change had
taken place on the summit of the volcano. Vapor and smoke mingled with
flames and incandescent stones were thrown up from the crater. But
during the night of the 23rd, in consequence of the lava attaining the
level of the first stratum of the volcano, the hat-shaped cone which
formed over the latter disappeared. A frightful sound was heard. The
colonists at first thought the island was rent asunder, and rushed out
of Granite House.

This occurred about two o’clock in the morning.

The sky appeared on fire. The superior cone, a mass of rock a thousand
feet in height, and weighing thousands of millions of pounds, had
been thrown down upon the island, making it tremble to its foundation.
Fortunately, this cone inclined to the north, and had fallen upon the
plain of sand and tufa stretching between the volcano and the sea. The
aperture of the crater being thus enlarged projected towards the sky a
glare so intense that by the simple effect of reflection the atmosphere
appeared red-hot. At the same time a torrent of lava, bursting from the
new summit, poured out in long cascades, like water escaping from a vase
too full, and a thousand tongues of fire crept over the sides of the
volcano.

“The corral! the corral!” exclaimed Ayrton.

It was, in fact, towards the corral that the lava was rushing as the
new crater faced the east, and consequently the fertile portions of the
island, the springs of Red Creek and Jacamar Wood, were menaced with
instant destruction.

At Ayrton’s cry the colonists rushed to the onagers’ stables. The cart
was at once harnessed. All were possessed by the same thought--to hasten
to the corral and set at liberty the animals it enclosed.

Before three in the morning they arrived at the corral. The cries of the
terrified musmons and goats indicated the alarm which possessed them.
Already a torrent of burning matter and liquefied minerals fell from
the side of the mountain upon the meadows as far as the side of the
palisade. The gate was burst open by Ayrton, and the animals, bewildered
with terror, fled in all directions.

An hour afterwards the boiling lava filled the corral, converting into
vapor the water of the little rivulet which ran through it, burning up
the house like dry grass, and leaving not even a post of the palisade to
mark the spot where the corral once stood.

To contend against this disaster would have been folly--nay, madness. In
presence of Nature’s grand convulsions man is powerless.

It was now daylight--the 24th of January. Cyrus Harding and his
companions, before returning to Granite House, desired to ascertain the
probable direction this inundation of lava was about to take. The soil
sloped gradually from Mount Franklin to the east coast, and it was to be
feared that, in spite of the thick Jacamar Wood, the torrent would reach
the plateau of Prospect Heights.

“The lake will cover us,” said Gideon Spilett.

“I hope so!” was Cyrus Harding’s only reply.

The colonists were desirous of reaching the plain upon which the
superior cone of Mount Franklin had fallen, but the lava arrested their
progress. It had followed, on one side, the valley of Red Creek, and
on the other that of Falls River, evaporating those watercourses in its
passage. There was no possibility of crossing the torrent of lava;
on the contrary, the colonists were obliged to retreat before it. The
volcano, without its crown, was no longer recognizable, terminated as it
was by a sort of flat table which replaced the ancient crater. From two
openings in its southern and eastern sides an unceasing flow of lava
poured forth, thus forming two distinct streams. Above the new crater a
cloud of smoke and ashes, mingled with those of the atmosphere, massed
over the island. Loud peals of thunder broke, and could scarcely be
distinguished from the rumblings of the mountain, whose mouth vomited
forth ignited rocks, which, hurled to more than a thousand feet, burst
in the air like shells. Flashes of lightning rivaled in intensity the
volcano’s eruption.

Towards seven in the morning the position was no longer tenable by the
colonists, who accordingly took shelter in the borders of Jacamar Wood.
Not only did the projectiles begin to rain around them, but the lava,
overflowing the bed of Red Creek, threatened to cut off the road to the
corral. The nearest rows of trees caught fire, and their sap, suddenly
transformed into vapor, caused them to explode with loud reports, while
others, less moist, remained unhurt in the midst of the inundation.

The colonists had again taken the road to the corral. They proceeded but
slowly, frequently looking back; but, in consequence of the inclination
of the soil, the lava gained rapidly in the east, and as its lower waves
became solidified others, at boiling heat, covered them immediately.

Meanwhile, the principal stream of Red Creek Valley became more and
more menacing. All this portion of the forest was on fire, and enormous
wreaths of smoke rolled over the trees, whose trunks were already
consumed by the lava.

The colonists halted near the lake, about half a mile from the mouth of
Red Creek. A question of life or death was now to be decided.

Cyrus Harding, accustomed to the consideration of important crises, and
aware that he was addressing men capable of hearing the truth, whatever
it might be, then said,--

“Either the lake will arrest the progress of the lava, and a part of
the island will be preserved from utter destruction, or the stream will
overrun the forests of the Far West, and not a tree or plant will
remain on the surface of the soil. We shall have no prospect but that
of starvation upon these barren rocks--a death which will probably be
anticipated by the explosion of the island.”

“In that case,” replied Pencroft, folding his arms and stamping his
foot, “what’s the use of working any longer on the vessel?”

“Pencroft,” answered Cyrus Harding, “we must do our duty to the last!”

At this instant the river of lava, after having broken a passage through
the noble trees it devoured in its course, reached the borders of the
lake. At this point there was an elevation of the soil which, had it
been greater, might have sufficed to arrest the torrent.

“To work!” cried Cyrus Harding.

The engineer’s thought was at once understood. It might be possible to
dam, as it were, the torrent, and thus compel it to pour itself into the
lake.

The colonists hastened to the dockyard. They returned with shovels,
picks, axes, and by means of banking the earth with the aid of fallen
trees they succeeded in a few hours in raising an embankment three feet
high and some hundreds of paces in length. It seemed to them, when
they had finished, as if they had scarcely been working more than a few
minutes.

It was not a moment too soon. The liquefied substances soon after
reached the bottom of the barrier. The stream of lava swelled like a
river about to overflow its banks, and threatened to demolish the sole
obstacle which could prevent it from overrunning the whole Far West. But
the dam held firm, and after a moment of terrible suspense the torrent
precipitated itself into Grant Lake from a height of twenty feet.

The colonists, without moving or uttering a word, breathlessly regarded
this strife of the two elements.

What a spectacle was this conflict between water and fire! What pen
could describe the marvelous horror of this scene--what pencil could
depict it? The water hissed as it evaporated by contact with the boiling
lava. The vapor whirled in the air to an immeasurable height, as if
the valves of an immense boiler had been suddenly opened. But, however
considerable might be the volume of water contained in the lake, it must
eventually be absorbed, because it was not replenished, while the stream
of lava, fed from an inexhaustible source, rolled on without ceasing new
waves of incandescent matter.

The first waves of lava which fell in the lake immediately solidified
and accumulated so as speedily to emerge from it. Upon their surface
fell other waves, which in their turn became stone, but a step
nearer the center of the lake. In this manner was formed a pier which
threatened to gradually fill up the lake, which could not overflow, the
water displaced by the lava being evaporated. The hissing of the water
rent the air with a deafening sound, and the vapor, blown by the wind,
fell in rain upon the sea. The pier became longer and longer, and the
blocks of lava piled themselves one on another. Where formerly stretched
the calm waters of the lake now appeared an enormous mass of smoking
rocks, as if an upheaving of the soil had formed immense shoals. Imagine
the waters of the lake aroused by a hurricane, then suddenly solidified
by an intense frost, and some conception may be formed of the aspect of
the lake three hours after the eruption of this irresistible torrent of
lava.

This time water would be vanquished by fire.

Nevertheless it was a fortunate circumstance for the colonists that the
effusion of lava should have been in the direction of Lake Grant. They
had before them some days’ respite. The plateau of Prospect Heights,
Granite House, and the dockyard were for the moment preserved. And these
few days it was necessary to employ in planking and carefully calking
the vessel, and launching her. The colonists would then take refuge on
board the vessel, content to rig her after she should be afloat on the
waters. With the danger of an explosion which threatened to destroy the
island there could be no security on shore. The walls of Granite House,
once so sure a retreat, might at any moment fall in upon them.

During the six following days, from the 25th to the 30th of January, the
colonists accomplished as much of the construction of their vessel as
twenty men could have done. They hardly allowed themselves a moment’s
repose, and the glare of the flames which shot from the crater enabled
them to work night and day. The flow of lava continued, but perhaps
less abundantly. This was fortunate, for Lake Grant was almost entirely
choked up, and if more lava should accumulate it would inevitably spread
over the plateau of Prospect Heights, and thence upon the beach.

But if the island was thus partially protected on this side, it was not
so with the western part.

In fact, the second stream of lava, which had followed the valley of
Falls River, a valley of great extent, the land on both sides of the
creek being flat, met with no obstacle. The burning liquid had then
spread through the forest of the Far West. At this period of the year,
when the trees were dried up by a tropical heat, the forest caught fire
instantaneously, in such a manner that the conflagration extended itself
both by the trunks of the trees and by their higher branches, whose
interlacement favored its progress. It even appeared that the current
of flame spread more rapidly among the summits of the trees than the
current of lava at their bases.

Thus it happened that the wild animals, jaguars, wild boars, capybaras,
koalas, and game of every kind, mad with terror, had fled to the banks
of the Mercy and to the Tadorn Marsh, beyond the road to Port Balloon.
But the colonists were too much occupied with their task to pay any
attention to even the most formidable of these animals. They had
abandoned Granite House, and would not even take shelter at the
Chimneys, but encamped under a tent, near the mouth of the Mercy.

Each day Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett ascended the plateau of
Prospect Heights. Sometimes Herbert accompanied them, but never
Pencroft, who could not bear to look upon the prospect of the island now
so utterly devastated.

It was, in truth, a heart-rending spectacle. All the wooded part of the
island was now completely bare. One single clump of green trees raised
their heads at the extremity of Serpentine Peninsula. Here and there
were a few grotesque blackened and branchless stumps. The side of the
devastated forest was even more barren than Tadorn Marsh. The eruption
of lava had been complete. Where formerly sprang up that charming
verdure, the soil was now nothing but a savage mass of volcanic tufa.
In the valleys of the Falls and Mercy rivers no drop of water now
flowed towards the sea, and should Lake Grant be entirely dried up,
the colonists would have no means of quenching their thirst. But,
fortunately the lava had spared the southern corner of the lake,
containing all that remained of the drinking water of the island.
Towards the northwest stood out the rugged and well-defined outlines of
the sides of the volcano, like a gigantic claw hovering over the island.
What a sad and fearful sight, and how painful to the colonists, who,
from a fertile domain covered with forests, irrigated by watercourses,
and enriched by the produce of their toils, found themselves, as it
were, transported to a desolate rock, upon which, but for their reserves
of provisions, they could not even gather the means of subsistence!

“It is enough to break one’s heart!” said Gideon Spilett, one day.

“Yes, Spilett,” answered the engineer. “May God grant us the time to
complete this vessel, now our sole refuge!”

“Do not you think, Cyrus, that the violence of the eruption has somewhat
lessened? The volcano still vomits forth lava, but somewhat less
abundantly, if I mistake not.”

“It matters little,” answered Cyrus Harding. “The fire is still burning
in the interior of the mountain, and the sea may break in at any moment.
We are in the condition of passengers whose ship is devoured by a
conflagration which they cannot extinguish, and who know that sooner or
later the flames must reach the powder-magazine. To work, Spilett, to
work, and let us not lose an hour!”

During eight days more, that is to say until the 7th of February,
the lava continued to flow, but the eruption was confined within the
previous limits. Cyrus Harding feared above all lest the liquefied
matter should overflow the shore, for in that event the dockyard could
not escape. Moreover, about this time the colonists felt in the frame of
the island vibrations which alarmed them to the highest degree.

It was the 20th of February. Yet another month must elapse before the
vessel would be ready for sea. Would the island hold together till then?
The intention of Pencroft and Cyrus Harding was to launch the vessel
as soon as the hull should be complete. The deck, the upperworks, the
interior woodwork and the rigging might be finished afterwards, but the
essential point was that the colonists should have an assured refuge
away from the island. Perhaps it might be even better to conduct the
vessel to Port Balloon, that is to say, as far as possible from the
center of eruption, for at the mouth of the Mercy, between the islet and
the wall of granite, it would run the risk of being crushed in the event
of any convulsion. All the exertions of the voyagers were therefore
concentrated upon the completion of the hull.

Thus the 3rd of March arrived, and they might calculate upon launching
the vessel in ten days.

Hope revived in the hearts of the colonists, who had, in this fourth
year of their sojourn on Lincoln island, suffered so many trials. Even
Pencroft lost in some measure the somber taciturnity occasioned by
the devastation and ruin of his domain. His hopes, it is true, were
concentrated upon his vessel.

“We shall finish it,” he said to the engineer, “we shall finish it,
captain, and it is time, for the season is advancing and the equinox
will soon be here. Well, if necessary, we must put in to Tabor island
to spend the winter. But think of Tabor island after Lincoln Island. Ah,
how unfortunate! Who could have believed it possible?”

“Let us get on,” was the engineer’s invariable reply.

And they worked away without losing a moment.

“Master,” asked Neb, a few days later, “do you think all this could have
happened if Captain Nemo had been still alive?”

“Certainly, Neb,” answered Cyrus Harding.

“I, for one, don’t believe it!” whispered Pencroft to Neb.

“Nor I!” answered Neb seriously.

During the first week of March appearances again became menacing.
Thousands of threads like glass, formed of fluid lava, fell like rain
upon the island. The crater was again boiling with lava which overflowed
the back of the volcano. The torrent flowed along the surface of the
hardened tufa, and destroyed the few meager skeletons of trees which had
withstood the first eruption. The stream, flowing this time towards the
southwest shore of Lake Grant, stretched beyond Creek Glycerine, and
invaded the plateau of Prospect Heights. This last blow to the work of
the colonists was terrible. The mill, the buildings of the inner court,
the stables, were all destroyed. The affrighted poultry fled in all
directions. Top and Jup showed signs of the greatest alarm, as if their
instinct warned them of an impending catastrophe. A large number of the
animals of the island had perished in the first eruption. Those which
survived found no refuge but Tadorn Marsh, save a few to which the
plateau of Prospect Heights afforded asylum. But even this last retreat
was now closed to them, and the lava-torrent, flowing over the edge of
the granite wall, began to pour down upon the beach its cataracts of
fire. The sublime horror of this spectacle passed all description.
During the night it could only be compared to a Niagara of molten fluid,
with its incandescent vapors above and its boiling masses below.

The colonists were driven to their last entrenchment, and although the
upper seams of the vessel were not yet calked, they decided to launch
her at once.

Pencroft and Ayrton therefore set about the necessary preparations for
the launching, which was to take place the morning of the next day, the
9th of March.

But during the night of the 8th an enormous column of vapor escaping
from the crater rose with frightful explosions to a height of more than
three thousand feet. The wall of Dakkar Grotto had evidently given way
under the pressure of gases, and the sea, rushing through the central
shaft into the igneous gulf, was at once converted into vapor. But
the crater could not afford a sufficient outlet for this vapor. An
explosion, which might have been heard at a distance of a hundred miles,
shook the air. Fragments of mountains fell into the Pacific, and, in a
few minutes, the ocean rolled over the spot where Lincoln island once
stood.



Chapter 20

An isolated rock, thirty feet in length, twenty in breadth, scarcely ten
from the water’s edge, such was the only solid point which the waves of
the Pacific had not engulfed.

It was all that remained of the structure of Granite House! The wall had
fallen headlong and been then shattered to fragments, and a few of the
rocks of the large room were piled one above another to form this point.
All around had disappeared in the abyss; the inferior cone of Mount
Franklin, rent asunder by the explosion; the lava jaws of Shark Gulf,
the plateau of Prospect Heights, Safety Islet, the granite rocks of Port
Balloon, the basalts of Dakkar Grotto, the long Serpentine Peninsula, so
distant nevertheless from the center of the eruption. All that could
now be seen of Lincoln Island was the narrow rock which now served as a
refuge to the six colonists and their dog Top.

The animals had also perished in the catastrophe; the birds, as well
as those representing the fauna of the island--all either crushed or
drowned, and the unfortunate Jup himself had, alas! found his death in
some crevice of the soil.

If Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, Pencroft, Neb, and Ayrton
had survived, it was because, assembled under their tent, they had been
hurled into the sea at the instant when the fragments of the island
rained down on every side.

When they reached the surface they could only perceive, at half a
cable’s length, this mass of rocks, towards which they swam and on which
they found footing.

On this barren rock they had now existed for nine days. A few provisions
taken from the magazine of Granite House before the catastrophe, a
little fresh water from the rain which had fallen in a hollow of the
rock, was all that the unfortunate colonists possessed. Their last hope,
the vessel, had been shattered to pieces. They had no means of quitting
the reef; no fire, nor any means of obtaining it. It seemed that they
must inevitably perish.

This day, the 18th of March, there remained only provisions for two
days, although they limited their consumption to the bare necessaries
of life. All their science and intelligence could avail them nothing in
their present position. They were in the hand of God.

Cyrus Harding was calm, Gideon Spilett more nervous, and Pencroft, a
prey to sullen anger, walked to and fro on the rock. Herbert did not
for a moment quit the engineer’s side, as if demanding from him that
assistance he had no power to give. Neb and Ayrton were resigned to
their fate.

“Ah, what a misfortune! what a misfortune!” often repeated Pencroft.
“If we had but a walnut-shell to take us to Tabor Island! But we have
nothing, nothing!”

“Captain Nemo did right to die,” said Neb.

During the five ensuing days Cyrus Harding and his unfortunate
companions husbanded their provisions with the most extreme care, eating
only what would prevent them from dying of starvation. Their weakness
was extreme. Herbert and Neb began to show symptoms of delirium.

Under these circumstances was it possible for them to retain even the
shadow of a hope? No! What was their sole remaining chance? That a
vessel should appear in sight of the rock? But they knew only too well
from experience that no ships ever visited this part of the Pacific.
Could they calculate that, by a truly providential coincidence, the
Scotch yacht would arrive precisely at this time in search of Ayrton
at Tabor Island? It was scarcely probable; and, besides, supposing
she should come there, as the colonists had not been able to deposit
a notice pointing out Ayrton’s change of abode, the commander of the
yacht, after having explored Tabor Island without results, would again
set sail and return to lower latitudes.

No! no hope of being saved could be retained, and a horrible death,
death from hunger and thirst, awaited them upon this rock.

Already they were stretched on the rock, inanimate, and no longer
conscious of what passed around them. Ayrton alone, by a supreme effort,
from time to time raised his head, and cast a despairing glance over the
desert ocean.

But on the morning of the 24th of March Ayrton’s arms were extended
toward a point in the horizon; he raised himself, at first on his knees,
then upright, and his hand seemed to make a signal.

A sail was in sight off the rock. She was evidently not without an
object. The reef was the mark for which she was making in a direct line,
under all steam, and the unfortunate colonists might have made her out
some hours before if they had had the strength to watch the horizon.

“The ‘Duncan’!” murmured Ayrton--and fell back without sign of life.

When Cyrus Harding and his companions recovered consciousness, thanks to
the attention lavished upon them, they found themselves in the cabin of
a steamer, without being able to comprehend how they had escaped death.

A word from Ayrton explained everything.

“The ‘Duncan’!” he murmured.

“The ‘Duncan’!” exclaimed Cyrus Harding. And raising his hand to Heaven,
he said, “Oh! Almighty God! mercifully hast Thou preserved us!”

It was, in fact, the “Duncan,” Lord Glenarvan’s yacht, now commanded by
Robert, son of Captain Grant, who had been despatched to Tabor Island to
find Ayrton, and bring him back to his native land after twelve years of
expiation.

The colonists were not only saved, but already on the way to their
native country.

“Captain Grant,” asked Cyrus Harding, “who can have suggested to you the
idea, after having left Tabor Island, where you did not find Ayrton, of
coming a hundred miles farther northeast?”

“Captain Harding,” replied Robert Grant, “it was in order to find, not
only Ayrton, but yourself and your companions.”

“My companions and myself?”

“Doubtless, at Lincoln Island.”

“At Lincoln Island!” exclaimed in a breath Gideon Spilett, Herbert, Neb,
and Pencroft, in the highest degree astonished.

“How could you be aware of the existence of Lincoln Island?” inquired
Cyrus Harding, “it is not even named in the charts.”

“I knew of it from a document left by you on Tabor Island,” answered
Robert Grant.

“A document!” cried Gideon Spilett.

“Without doubt, and here it is,” answered Robert Grant, producing a
paper which indicated the longitude and latitude of Lincoln Island, “the
present residence of Ayrton and five American colonists.”

“It is Captain Nemo!” cried Cyrus Harding, after having read the notice,
and recognized that the handwriting was similar to that of the paper
found at the corral.

“Ah!” said Pencroft, “it was then he who took our ‘Bonadventure’ and
hazarded himself alone to go to Tabor Island!”

“In order to leave this notice,” added Herbert.

“I was then right in saying,” exclaimed the sailor, “that even after his
death the captain would render us a last service.”

“My friends,” said Cyrus Harding, in a voice of the profoundest emotion,
“may the God of mercy have had pity on the soul of Captain Nemo, our
benefactor.”

The colonists uncovered themselves at these last words of Cyrus Harding,
and murmured the name of Captain Nemo.

Then Ayrton, approaching the engineer, said simply, “Where should this
coffer be deposited?”

It was the coffer which Ayrton had saved at the risk of his life, at
the very instant that the island had been engulfed, and which he now
faithfully handed to the engineer.

“Ayrton! Ayrton!” said Cyrus Harding, deeply touched. Then, addressing
Robert Grant, “Sir,” he added, “you left behind you a criminal; you find
in his place a man who has become honest by penitence, and whose hand I
am proud to clasp in mine.”

Robert Grant was now made acquainted with the strange history of Captain
Nemo and the colonists of Lincoln Island. Then, observation being taken
of what remained of this shoal, which must henceforward figure on the
charts of the Pacific, the order was given to make all sail.

A few weeks afterwards the colonists landed in America, and found their
country once more at peace after the terrible conflict in which right
and justice had triumphed.

Of the treasures contained in the coffer left by Captain Nemo to the
colonists of Lincoln Island, the larger portion was employed in the
purchase of a vast territory in the State of Iowa. One pearl alone, the
finest, was reserved from the treasure and sent to Lady Glenarvan in the
name of the castaways restored to their country by the “Duncan.”

There, upon this domain, the colonists invited to labor, that is to say,
to wealth and happiness, all those to whom they had hoped to offer the
hospitality of Lincoln Island. There was founded a vast colony to
which they gave the name of that island sunk beneath the waters of the
Pacific. A river there was called the Mercy, a mountain took the name
of Mount Franklin, a small lake was named Lake Grant, and the forests
became the forests of the Far West. It might have been an island on
terra firma.

There, under the intelligent hands of the engineer and his companions,
everything prospered. Not one of the former colonists of Lincoln Island
was absent, for they had sworn to live always together. Neb was with his
master; Ayrton was there ready to sacrifice himself for all; Pencroft
was more a farmer than he had ever been a sailor; Herbert, who completed
his studies under the superintendence of Cyrus Harding, and Gideon
Spilett, who founded the New Lincoln Herald, the best-informed journal
in the world.

There Cyrus Harding and his companions received at intervals visits from
Lord and Lady Glenarvan, Captain John Mangles and his wife, the sister
of Robert Grant, Robert Grant himself, Major McNab, and all those who
had taken part in the history both of Captain Grant and Captain Nemo.

There, to conclude, all were happy, united in the present as they had
been in the past; but never could they forget that island upon which
they had arrived poor and friendless, that island which, during four
years had supplied all their wants, and of which there remained but a
fragment of granite washed by the waves of the Pacific, the tomb of him
who had borne the name of Captain Nemo.

They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He played a video game with his friends.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He played basketball with his friends.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He played basketball with his friends.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He played a video game with his friends.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He played a video game with his friends.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He played a video game with his friends.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He played a video game with his friends.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He played basketball with his friends.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She went to the gym to work out.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He played basketball with his friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She went to the gym to work out.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He played a video game with his friends.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She went to the gym to work out.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He played basketball with his friends.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He played basketball with his friends.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He played a video game with his friends.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He played basketball with his friends.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He played a video game with his friends.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He played a video game with his friends.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went to the gym to work out.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He played a video game with his friends.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She went to the gym to work out.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He played a video game with his friends.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went to the gym to work out.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She went to the gym to work out.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He played a video game with his friends.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He played basketball with his friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He played basketball with his friends.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He played basketball with his friends.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He played a video game with his friends.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He played a video game with his friends.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She went to the gym to work out.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He played a video game with his friends.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She went to the gym to work out.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He played basketball with his friends.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She went to the gym to work out.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He played a video game with his friends.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He played basketball with his friends.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He went to a football game with his friends.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He played basketball with his friends.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went to the gym to work out.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She went to the gym to work out.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She went to the gym to work out.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He played basketball with his friends.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went to the gym to work out.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She went to the gym to work out.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went to the gym to work out.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He played basketball with his friends.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went to the gym to work out.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She went to the gym to work out.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He played a video game with his friends.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He played basketball with his friends.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He played basketball with his friends.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She went to the gym to work out.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She went to the gym to work out.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He played basketball with his friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She went to the gym to work out.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He played a video game with his friends.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She went to the gym to work out.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He played basketball with his friends.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She went to the gym to work out.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She went to the gym to work out.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She went to the gym to work out.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He played a video game with his friends.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He played a video game with his friends.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He played basketball with his friends.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He played basketball with his friends.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He played basketball with his friends.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He played a video game with his friends.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She went to the gym to work out.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He played a video game with his friends.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He played basketball with his friends.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He played a video game with his friends.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He played a video game with his friends.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He played a video game with his friends.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He played basketball with his friends.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He played a video game with his friends.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He played a video game with his friends.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He played a video game with his friends.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She went to the gym to work out.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went to the gym to work out.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He played a video game with his friends.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He played basketball with his friends.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He played a video game with his friends.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She went to the gym to work out.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went to the gym to work out.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He played basketball with his friends.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He played basketball with his friends.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He played a video game with his friends.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He played a video game with his friends.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He played a video game with his friends.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went to the gym to work out.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He played a video game with his friends.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He played basketball with his friends.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He played basketball with his friends.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He played basketball with his friends.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went to the gym to work out.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She went to the gym to work out.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He played a video game with his friends.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He played basketball with his friends.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He played basketball with his friends.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He played basketball with his friends.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She went to the gym to work out.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He played a video game with his friends.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She went to the gym to work out.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She went to the gym to work out.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He played a video game with his friends.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She went to the gym to work out.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She worked from home to stay productive.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He played basketball with his friends.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He played a video game with his friends.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He played a video game with his friends.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He played basketball with his friends.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She went to the gym to work out.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He played a video game with his friends.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went to the gym to work out.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He played basketball with his friends.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She went to the gym to work out.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He played a video game with his friends.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She went to the gym to work out.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He played basketball with his friends.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She went to the gym to work out.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He played a video game with his friends.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He played a video game with his friends.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He played basketball with his friends.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He played basketball with his friends.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He played basketball with his friends.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He played a video game with his friends.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He played a video game with his friends.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He played a video game with his friends.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went to the gym to work out.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He played basketball with his friends.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He played basketball with his friends.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She went to the gym to work out.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He played basketball with his friends.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He played a video game with his friends.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went to the gym to work out.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He played a video game with his friends.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He played basketball with his friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He played a video game with his friends.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He played a video game with his friends.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He played basketball with his friends.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The children played outside until it got dark.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He went to a football game with his friends.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He played basketball with his friends.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She went to the gym to work out.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He played a video game with his friends.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He played basketball with his friends.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to the gym to work out.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went to the gym to work out.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He helped his brother with his homework.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He played a video game with his friends.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He played a video game with his friends.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She went to the gym to work out.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He played basketball with his friends.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She went to the gym to work out.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He played a video game with his friends.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She went to the gym to work out.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went to the gym to work out.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He played a video game with his friends.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He helped his brother with his homework.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She went to the gym to work out.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She went to the gym to work out.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He played a video game with his friends.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He played basketball with his friends.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He played basketball with his friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She went to the gym to work out.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She went to the gym to work out.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He played basketball with his friends.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He played a video game with his friends.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He played basketball with his friends.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He played basketball with his friends.
He played basketball with his friends.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went to the gym to work out.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She went to the gym to work out.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went to the gym to work out.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He played basketball with his friends.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He played basketball with his friends.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He played basketball with his friends.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He played a video game with his friends.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He played basketball with his friends.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He played a video game with his friends.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He played basketball with his friends.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He played basketball with his friends.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She went to the gym to work out.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He helped his brother with his homework.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went to the gym to work out.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She went to the gym to work out.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He played a video game with his friends.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He played a video game with his friends.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went to the gym to work out.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He played a video game with his friends.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He played basketball with his friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He played basketball with his friends.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He helped his brother with his homework.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He played basketball with his friends.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He played basketball with his friends.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She went to the gym to work out.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He played basketball with his friends.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He played a video game with his friends.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She went to the gym to work out.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He played basketball with his friends.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She went to the gym to work out.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She went to the gym to work out.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He played basketball with his friends.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She went to the gym to work out.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He played basketball with his friends.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He played basketball with his friends.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He played a video game with his friends.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He played a video game with his friends.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He played basketball with his friends.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She went to the gym to work out.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He played a video game with his friends.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He played basketball with his friends.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She went to the gym to work out.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He played basketball with his friends.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He played a video game with his friends.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He played basketball with his friends.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He helped his brother with his homework.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He played basketball with his friends.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He played a video game with his friends.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He played a video game with his friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
He played a video game with his friends.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He played a video game with his friends.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He played basketball with his friends.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He played a video game with his friends.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He played basketball with his friends.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She went to the gym to work out.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She went to the gym to work out.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She went to the gym to work out.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He played basketball with his friends.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He played basketball with his friends.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He played basketball with his friends.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He played a video game with his friends.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They went on a hike through the forest.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went on a road trip across the country.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She went to the gym to work out.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He played a video game with his friends.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They enjoyed a delicious dinner at a new restaurant.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He went to a football game with his friends.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She went to the gym to work out.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
She worked from home to stay productive.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The children played outside until it got dark.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She went to the gym to work out.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She worked from home to stay productive.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
He played basketball with his friends.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
The sun is shining brightly in the sky.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went to the market to buy fresh vegetables.
He played basketball with his friends.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
The city streets were bustling with people and cars.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He played basketball with his friends.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He played basketball with his friends.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
He went to the coffee shop to meet his friend.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
He played a video game with his friends.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
She went to the gym to work out.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She took a trip to the mountains to go skiing.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She went to the gym to work out.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
He went to a football game with his friends.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
He took his dog for a walk in the park.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He enjoyed a quiet morning with a cup of coffee.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
They went to the movies to watch the latest film.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They enjoyed a quiet dinner at a cozy restaurant.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went on a road trip across the country.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
She went to the spa to unwind and relax.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He played basketball with his friends.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He played basketball with his friends.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
She spent the day baking cookies with her children.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went to the library to find books for their research.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
She went to the gym to work out.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She worked from home to stay productive.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
She packed a picnic basket for their afternoon outing.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He played basketball with his friends.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They spent the afternoon at the art gallery.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They went to a carnival and rode the ferris wheel.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He wrote a poem for his girlfriend on their anniversary.
The cat curled up on the couch to take a nap.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They watched the fireworks display on New Year's Eve.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He helped his neighbor with some yard work.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He went to a football game with his friends.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He cooked a delicious dinner for his family.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
He went to a friend's house for a barbecue.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
She went to a yoga class to relax.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She went to the gym to work out.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They went to a theme park for a fun day.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She went for a bike ride in the park.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The children played outside until it got dark.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
She went on a shopping spree with her friends.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She painted a beautiful landscape for the art show.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The wind rustled through the trees in the forest.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
He spent the day at the library studying for exams.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
The car stopped at the red light before proceeding.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They went on a road trip across the country.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
She spent the afternoon organizing her closet.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They had a movie marathon on a rainy day.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They enjoyed a fun day at an outdoor festival.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
He played chess with his friend on the weekend.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
They went on a hike through the forest.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
She helped her neighbor carry groceries up the stairs.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
He played a video game with his friends.
She helped her friend move into a new apartment.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
He spent the day at the beach surfing.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
They enjoyed a picnic by the river.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They enjoyed a fun day at the water park.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They went to a music festival over the weekend.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He went for a jog in the morning to stay healthy.
She made a cup of tea and sat by the window.
The train arrived late due to the heavy rain.
He loved to watch the birds fly in the sky.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
The dog chased after the ball in the backyard.
The lights of the city glowed in the evening sky.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
They spent a quiet evening at home.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
She attended a photography class to improve her skills.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The kids laughed as they played a game of tag.
They went on a trip to the mountains last summer.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She had a relaxing bath to unwind after a long day.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
He helped his friend move into a new apartment.
He spent the weekend relaxing at home.
She danced to the rhythm of the music at the party.
They went on a road trip across the country.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They took a trip to the zoo to see the animals.
They spent the afternoon at the museum looking at art.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They spent the afternoon at a local museum.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
He helped his brother with his homework.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They explored the city by bike on a sunny afternoon.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
She gave her friend a thoughtful birthday gift.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
They went to the park to play frisbee.
They took a walk by the beach in the evening.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She spent the afternoon painting a landscape.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
I forgot my umbrella on a rainy day.
They watched a movie together on a quiet evening.
They went on a guided hike through the forest.
The birds sang sweetly in the early morning.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
The weather was perfect for a picnic in the park.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
He relaxed on the couch with a good book.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
They visited a museum to see the new exhibition.
The flowers bloomed brightly in the spring garden.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They visited an art museum to see the new exhibition.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
They went to a cooking class to learn new dishes.
He went to the store to buy some fresh produce.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They enjoyed a relaxing afternoon at the spa.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She enjoyed a hot cup of chocolate on a cold day.
They took a weekend trip to the countryside.
He worked late into the night to finish the project.
They hiked up the mountain trail early in the morning.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They took a day trip to the mountains to hike.
She spent the day at the museum looking at exhibits.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed a relaxing evening at the beach.
They went to a new city to explore the sights.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
He cleaned his car to make it shine like new.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
The children played outside until it got dark.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She made a reservation for dinner at the new restaurant.
They traveled to a new city and explored the sights.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
She spent the day shopping for new clothes.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
They enjoyed a family dinner together.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They took a road trip through the countryside.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
The children played outside until it got dark.
She went to a painting class to learn new techniques.
The rain tapped gently on the window as they read.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The lights of the city twinkled in the distance.
They went to a concert to see their favorite band.
He helped his brother with his homework.
She took a photo of the beautiful sunset.
They enjoyed a peaceful walk through the countryside.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
They went to a pet store to buy food for their dog.
He went to the gym every morning to stay fit.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
She went to the beach to collect seashells.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
She went for a run in the park to stay fit.
She helped her grandmother with gardening.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
They went on a hike through the forest.
She organized a surprise party for her best friend.
They went on a hike through the forest.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
He spent the afternoon working on his project.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He spent the day fishing by the lake.
She took a long walk in the park to clear her mind.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
He went to a cafe to meet his colleagues.
He went for a walk in the neighborhood.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
They spent the afternoon shopping for clothes.
They enjoyed a boat ride on the river.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They celebrated their anniversary with a special dinner.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
They enjoyed a nice dinner at a seafood restaurant.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She prepared a delicious meal for her family.
The baby giggled as her mother played with her.
He played video games with his friends all afternoon.
He learned to play the piano in his spare time.
She wore a beautiful dress to the wedding.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
He went to a football game with his friends.
They spent a day at the beach enjoying the sun.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
They spent the afternoon baking cookies in the kitchen.
He fixed the broken chair in the living room.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
The kids built a snowman in the front yard.
The dog barked excitedly as its owner returned home.
They had a fun day at the amusement park.
He spent his free time painting in his studio.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They planted flowers in the garden on a sunny day.
They had a barbecue in the backyard with friends.
He practiced his guitar every evening to improve.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
He read a book by the fireplace on a cold evening.
The coffee was hot and comforting on a cold day.
She wrote a letter to her friend overseas.
He enjoyed a quiet day at home.
They went to a park for a morning jog.
He spent his day off at the farmer's market.
She took a walk in the park with her dog.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They went to a local farm to pick apples.
She took a dance class to learn salsa.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They had a picnic in the park on a warm day.
She attended a cooking class to learn new recipes.
The family went camping in the mountains for the weekend.
They had a cozy dinner by the fireplace on a winter night.
The team celebrated their victory after the game.
The concert was a huge success and everyone enjoyed it.
They discussed their plans over a cup of coffee.
He spent the afternoon in a cozy coffee shop.
They went to a new restaurant to try the food.
They went to the botanical garden to admire the flowers.
She worked from home to stay productive.
They had a barbecue in the backyard on the weekend.
They enjoyed a hike through the mountains.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
They had a picnic in the park on a sunny day.
He helped his parents with the garden on the weekend.
They spent the afternoon at the beach building sandcastles.
They went for a walk in the rain without an umbrella.
The kids went ice skating at the outdoor rink.
They enjoyed an afternoon at the local park.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
She took a break from work to go for a walk.
They enjoyed a lazy afternoon at home.
They explored the city on foot, discovering new places.
They spent the weekend at the lake fishing and boating.
She went to the art store to buy new supplies.
He learned how to cook a new recipe.
The family went on a boat ride in the lake.
He was excited to go on vacation next week.
She enjoyed an afternoon tea with her grandmother.
She made a scrapbook of their trip to Europe.
The children played in the sandbox at the playground.
She walked through the park with a smile on her face.
They went on a guided tour of the city.
He watched the sunset from the balcony of his apartment.
The kids made a fort out of blankets in the living room.
They went to the zoo to see the animals.
She wrote a heartfelt message in the birthday card.
The children listened intently to the bedtime story.
They took a road trip through the countryside.

How are you doing today
Good morning How was your night
Good night See you tomorrow
Nice to meet you I have heard about you
See you later Take care
Can you help me with this please
Where is the nearest restroom located
What time is it right now
Can I have some water please
Do you know where I can find this
Yes of course I would be happy to help
No thank you I have got everything I need
I do not know Let me find out
That is fine Do not worry about it
I am sorry I did not mean to upset you
I need to go to work soon
I am going to the store for groceries
Let us have lunch together at noon
What is for dinner tonight I am starving
I am watching TV in the living room
I am so happy for you today
That is amazing You really deserve this
I am feeling tired I need a quick nap
I am really sorry for my mistake
I cannot believe this is happening
How much does this item cost here
Can I pay for this by card
I am looking for a gift for someone
Do you have this available in stock
Thank you for your help today
How do I get there from here
I need a taxi to get home
What is the fastest route to the airport
Is this the right way to downtown
How long will it take to reach
It is a beautiful day outside today
The weather is nice and sunny
Did you watch the football game yesterday
What is new with you these days
Let us catch up soon It has been ages
How are you feeling now
Have you eaten your food
Did you take your medicines
Please call me after you reach home
What is the price of this
Do you have a smaller size
Can you deliver this to my house
When will the train arrive
Where is the nearest ATM
Can you guide me to this address
Have you booked the cab
Do you have any change
Is the internet working properly
Can you please send the document
Please let me know if you need any help
Are you coming for the wedding
What is the plan for the evening
Can you pass me the water bottle
Do you know how to cook this dish
Let us go to the market together
The electricity just went off
Do not forget to bring the umbrella
Did you complete your homework
What time does the shop open
I will call you in five minutes
How much time will it take to reach
Do you know the name of this temple
Can you please wait for two minutes
What is the cost of one kilo of tomatoes
Have you visited this place before
Please give me a glass of water
When are you planning to visit your hometown
Can you switch off the fan
Let us have tea in the evening
Do you know any good tuition teacher
What is the menu for today
Did you bring the vegetables from the market
Can you recharge my phone
Where can I find the bus stop
I need to figure out the best way to reach the railway station during peak hours
Can you please explain how to fill out this government form step by step
Do you know when the next local train will arrive at this platform
I am planning to visit the temple early in the morning to avoid the crowd
Can you help me understand the procedure to apply for a passport renewal
The street food here is famous but do you know which vendor is the best
We need to decide whether to travel by train or book a cab depending on the budget
Can you remind me to call the electrician to fix the wiring issue tomorrow morning
Do you know any affordable hotel near this area that has good reviews and clean rooms
I need to buy some ingredients to prepare biryani can you suggest a good grocery shop nearby
What are the documents required to submit an application for the new government scheme
If we leave now we might be able to avoid the traffic and reach the office on time
Can you help me calculate how much money we need to carry for the trip to the hills
Do you know where I can find a good tailor who can stitch traditional Indian clothes perfectly
I was thinking of organizing a small get together for the family next weekend at our place
The electricity bill seems unusually high this month do you think we should get it checked
Can you explain to me why the internet is so slow despite having a high speed plan
What time does the last bus to the neighboring city leave from the main bus terminal
I have heard that the dosa at this restaurant is amazing have you tried it before
Let us plan a road trip to Kerala during the next long weekend if everyone agrees
The climate has changed drastically this year do you think it will affect the crop yield
I need to find a school that offers good extracurricular activities along with academics for my child
Do you know the procedure to transfer the ownership of a vehicle in this state
We should start preparing for the festival in advance so that we can avoid last minute chaos
Can you check if the courier with the documents has been delivered to the right address
I think we should try this new restaurant that has opened near the shopping mall
What is the process to register a complaint with the municipal corporation about garbage collection
How much is the fare to this destination
Is this the right train to Mumbai
Can you please let me know when we reach my stop
Does this bus go to Connaught Place
Can you share an auto to reduce the fare
How long will it take to reach the next station
Can you tell me where the ticket counter is located
Is there a seat available near the window
Please let me know if a seat gets vacant
How many stops are there before we reach the destination
Does this train have a pantry car for food
Can you hold my bag while I adjust my luggage
Where can I find a porter to help with the luggage
Is this the fast local or the slow local
Does this auto driver agree to go by the meter
What time does the check in counter open for this flight
Can you guide me to the boarding gate
Do I need to collect my baggage here or at the final destination
Is this seat next to the emergency exit
Can you provide a vegetarian meal please
How long will it take for the plane to land
Is there WiFi available on this flight
Can you help me with the overhead compartment for my luggage
Do I need to fill out an immigration form for this destination
Are there any delays expected for this flight
Where can I find the lounge for my airline
Can I get an aisle seat instead of a window seat
What is the baggage allowance for this flight
Can I get some water please
What time will we be served food on this flight
Where can I find my cabin on this deck
What time does the ship leave the harbor
Can you tell me the schedule for the onboard activities
Is there a lifeboat drill before departure
Can I order room service to my cabin
Where is the dining area located on this ship
How do I access the upper deck
Are there any stops before we reach the final port
Do you know if there is a medical facility onboard
What is the procedure in case of an emergency at sea
Is there a guided tour available for passengers on this cruise
How long will the ship dock at this port
Can you help me locate the swimming pool area
What are the safety instructions for this ship
Are there vegetarian options available in the buffet
Can you pass me the remote
I’ll be back in a bit I’m going to hang out with friends
What’s for dinner tonight I’m really hungry
Can you help me with this homework
Where’s my phone charger I can’t find it anywhere
Do we have any snacks left
Are we having family dinner together tonight
I’m heading out can you leave the door unlocked
I’m in my room don’t come in right now
Can you take care of the laundry while I study
Have you eaten yet It’s getting late
Don’t forget to study for your exams tomorrow
Can you help me clean up the living room
Where is your brother Have you seen him
Make sure to wear a jacket it’s cold outside
Can you take the dog for a walk
I’m going out can you keep the door locked
What time will you be home tonight
Do you need any help with your homework
We’re having dinner in 15 minutes be ready
Do we need more milk or is there enough
Can you grab the bread from the shelf
Are we getting any snacks for the movie night
I’ll take care of the checkout can you go find the eggs
How much is this I don’t think we need it
Let’s get some fruit for the week
Can we get some ice cream for dessert
Are we making pasta tonight I’ll grab the sauce
I think we have enough vegetables for the week
I don’t like the brand of chips we usually get
We need to buy more vegetables for the week
Can you get some yogurt while I check for rice
Let’s grab some milk it’s running low
Make sure to check the expiry date before picking up anything
Don’t forget to pick up the groceries for dinner
Take this shopping list and get everything
Let’s check if the items are on sale
Do we need any cleaning supplies or are we good
Let me know if you want anything extra for snacks
We are getting tomatoes and onions for the curry
When does the cake come out I’m starving
Can I bring a friend to the party
Is there music tonight I want to dance
How long are we staying at the event
Where should I sit I don’t know anyone here
Are we going out for lunch after this
Let’s take a group photo
What time do we have to leave
Can we leave early I have plans with my friends
I’m going to get some snacks I’ll be back
Do you need any help with the decorations
We have to be on time for the cake cutting
Make sure to greet everyone properly
Can you help me carry the presents
We’re staying for the whole party don’t rush
Don’t forget to thank the hosts for the invitation
Please be polite and don’t leave your seat
Can you take some pictures during the party
Don’t go too far I need to keep an eye on you
Let’s get ready for the group photo
Are we stopping at the gas station anytime soon
When will we get to the hotel I’m getting tired
Can we go to the beach first
Do we have the itinerary for today’s activities
Is there a good place to eat around here
I need to charge my phone can I plug it in
Are we visiting any tourist spots tomorrow
Let’s take a selfie with the monument
What time are we leaving for the airport
This place looks amazing can we come back next year
Don’t forget to pack your sunscreen for the trip
Can you check the hotel reservation if it’s confirmed
We’re stopping for lunch soon don’t get too hungry
Make sure to bring your jacket it’s going to be chilly
Don’t forget your passport when we go to the airport
Let’s take some family photos before we leave
Are we going sightseeing today or just relaxing
Be careful while walking near the cliffs
Can you make sure everyone is ready on time
Remember to drink water and stay hydrated
I really want to go to that concert can I get the tickets
Can I get a new phone this year I’ve been saving for it
I think we should take a road trip this summer
Can I get a bigger allowance I have some expenses
What do you think about me joining a new club at school
Do you think I should get a job this summer
I’m not sure if I want to take this course in college
Can I buy this item it’s on sale right now
What do you think about moving to a different city
Should I invest in a better laptop for school
We need to discuss the budget for the family vacation
Let’s talk about your college options this weekend
It’s important to save some money for emergencies
I think you should focus on your studies right now
Have you thought about your future career plans
Let’s sit down and talk about your allowance increase
We need to have a family meeting about house expenses
It’s time to decide if we need to buy a new car
Let’s talk about whether we want to renovate the house
Do you want to help us plan the family vacation
How much would it cost to get to the airport from here considering the traffic
Could you kindly tell me how to get to the nearest station as I am not familiar with this area
Would it be possible for you to tell me the exact time please
Do you happen to know if this seat is already taken or can I sit here
Would you mind passing me the pen that is on the table I seem to have misplaced mine
Could you assist me with this task I’m having a bit of trouble with it
How far exactly is it from here to the nearest restaurant or café
When does the next bus leave to the city center I’m trying to make sure I don’t miss it
Are we almost there yet I feel like we’ve been traveling for a while now
Do you have any known food allergies that I should be aware of before we order
Can you tell me where I can easily get a taxi around here without much wait
Would you mind turning the music down a bit It’s a little too loud for me
Do you happen to know what time the store closes tonight I don’t want to arrive too late
Is it possible for me to pay by card or do you prefer cash only
Would it be alright if I sit here or are these seats reserved for someone else
Could you please pass me the salt I think I might need a little bit more for my meal
Are we still meeting at the usual place or have there been any changes to the plan
Do you have any good recommendations for a restaurant in this area where we can enjoy a nice meal
Could I kindly ask for the bill when you get a chance I’m ready to pay for the meal
Could you please let me know what the weather is like today I need to plan my day accordingly
How long will it approximately take to get to the city center from here by public transport
Do you happen to be free this evening or are you already busy with other plans
Would you like to grab a cup of coffee together sometime later today or tomorrow
Where did you get that amazing item I’d love to know where I can find one for myself
Do you happen to have an umbrella with you I forgot to bring mine today
Could you tell me if there’s a good place to eat nearby that serves vegetarian options
Can you help me with directions to the nearest shopping mall as I’m not sure of the way
Is there a hospital nearby in case of an emergency or should I head to a different area
Would you mind making the dish a little spicier than usual I prefer it with a bit more heat
Do you know how to get to the beach from here and if there’s public transport available
Is it safe to walk around this area at night or should I be cautious of my surroundings
How many stops are left until we reach the next station I’m planning to get off there
Could you kindly give me a map of this city so I can explore it on my own
Would you be able to speak more slowly as I’m still getting used to the language
Are you feeling alright or do you need to take a break for a bit
Can you lend me some money for a cab I’ll pay you back as soon as I get home
Is this your first time visiting this place or are you familiar with the area already
Could you tell me what the weather is expected to be like tomorrow as I need to prepare
Would you like to go for a walk after dinner or would you prefer staying inside
How far is it from here to the nearest museum I’m thinking of visiting it this afternoon
Could you please tell me how to get to the station from here as I need to catch a train
What are you planning to do this weekend or do you have any special plans for your days off
Where can I find a good restaurant to eat around here I’m getting quite hungry
Could I please have a glass of water I’m feeling really thirsty at the moment
How do I get to the airport from here Would it be better to take a taxi or the bus
Would you mind helping me with my luggage I’m struggling to carry it
Is this the right bus to the city or am I on the wrong route
Where is the nearest supermarket I need to pick up some items for dinner tonight
Would you like to watch a movie later tonight I was thinking of going to the theater
Could I borrow your phone for a minute I need to make a quick call
Where do you live I’m curious to know where you’re from
Do you have any recommendations for places to visit in this city or country
Could you suggest a good restaurant nearby that serves both vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes
Would you mind passing the sugar please I need a little bit more for my tea
Where are we meeting tomorrow Have we decided on a place yet
Could you please wait for me I’ll just be a few minutes
What’s your favorite kind of music I’m always looking for new artists to listen to
How much does it cost to park here for the day I need to leave my car for a few hours
Where can I find some water around here I’m feeling quite dehydrated
Is there a place nearby to get food or should we wait until we reach the next town
Could you help me with directions to the hotel I’m supposed to check in at
How far is it to the nearest airport from here I need to catch a flight soon
Could you please tell me where the nearest bus stop is from here
Is there a coffee shop around here where I can sit down and relax for a bit
Could you help me with the directions to the city center
Where do you want to go for dinner tonight I’m open to any suggestions
Do you like this place so far or would you prefer to visit somewhere else
Could you recommend something to do around here I’m looking for activities to fill my afternoon
Where is the nearest pharmacy I need to pick up a prescription
What time does the movie start I don’t want to miss it
How do I get to the shopping mall from here Can I walk or should I take the bus
Are you hungry or do you want to wait a little longer before eating
Where are we going next after this event ends I’m not sure what the plan is
Could you please show me where the restroom is I’m in need of using it
Can I take this seat or is someone already sitting here
What time does the shop open I need to pick something up
Would you like to join me for lunch or do you already have plans
Where do I buy tickets for the train Is it better to buy them online or at the station
Could I try this on before deciding if I want to buy it or not
Would you like to take a selfie together to remember this moment
Is there a park nearby where we can relax and enjoy the weather
Can I have a glass of water please I’m feeling very thirsty
How far is the restaurant from here I need to know if we’ll be able to make it in time
Are you busy tomorrow or do you have time to meet up later in the day
Where is the nearest bus station from here Could you point me in the right direction
Can you lend me some spare change I’ll pay you back as soon as I can
Would you mind driving me to the airport tomorrow I don’t want to take a cab
Where is your hometown I’d love to know more about where you grew up
Is it safe to walk around here late at night or should I be careful
Where do you live exactly I’d like to know more about where you’re based
What time do you finish work today I might be able to meet up afterward
Would you mind helping me with my computer I’m having some trouble figuring it out
Where is the nearest ATM I need to withdraw some money
Are you coming to the event later tonight or do you have other plans
Could I borrow your phone for a minute I need to make a quick call
Where can I find a good coffee shop around here I’m in the mood for a nice cappuccino
Would you mind taking a vegetarian option for lunch today I’m trying to avoid meat
What time does the last bus leave for the day I don’t want to miss it
Could I get a refund for this purchase as I changed my mind about it
Where can I find a place to relax near here I need a quiet spot to sit
Could you recommend a good book to read I’ve been looking for something new
How long will it take to get there by train I don’t want to be late
What’s the best way to get around the city on a budget
Where is the nearest convenience store from here I need to grab a few things



